Fabrizi is a surname of Italian origin. Notable people with the name include:John F. Chellis (1792 – September 17, 1883) was a Republican who became the ninth Lieutenant Governor of California from 1862 to 1863.
Chellis was a businessman, and owned several ventures in northern California, including a water-powered gristmill in Sebastopol, California.  In 1852 and 1853, Chellis was the primary contractor responsible for constructing the Trinity County.  From 1853 to 1854, he served as County Treasurer.[1]
Because the state had recently taken control of the prison system, his position as lieutenant governor carried a dual role placing him as warden of San Quentin State Prison.[2] On the evening of July 23, 1862, there was a prison breakout by up to 300 inmates,[3] later regarded as one of the biggest and bloodiest in American history, with Chellis being taken hostage.[4] The previous few years had seen an increasing number of prison escapes with the resulting manhunts ending in violence. This escape was no exception and a large posse tracked down the escapees; Chellis was released relatively unharmed in the process.[5]
Chellis died September 17, 1883, in Myrtle Creek, Oregon.[6]  According to a letter to the California Secretary of State from a resident of Myrtle Creek, Chellis, who was unknown to him, had appeared at his house on September 9.[6]  Chellis was suffering from a urinary stricture and other health problems, which made him nearly unaware of his surroundings and unable to care for himself.[6]  The letter writer,  David Scott Kinnear Buick, further indicated that he had procured a nurse and volunteers to care for Chellis, but Chellis did not recover and died eight days later.[6]  He was buried in the Myrtle Creek Odd Fellows Cemetery on September 18.[6]  In his letter, which was published in several California newspapers, Buick indicated that Chellis had about $12 in cash with him when he died, but no other property.[6]  He had no information with him indicating whether he had any relatives, and if so where, so Buick asked for the Secretary of State's assistance in attempting to notify Chellis's family.[6]

This article about a California politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.Steven L. Mandel is an American anesthesiologist and advocate for the use of ketamine in the treatment of mental health.[1]
Mandel is an anesthesiologist,[2] who began his career working in cosmetic surgery offices in California. Following the death of a family member to suspected suicide,[3] anxiety and PTSD[4] he went on to co-found Ketamine Clinics Los Angeles,[2] which he established in 2013. At his clinic, Mandel administers sub-anesthetic doses of ketamine for patients with chronic depression, suicidal ideation,[3] via intravenous infusions.[5][6] He has also advocated for scientific inquiry into other psychedelics and their potential use as mental health treatments.[7] He is also the founder and first president of the American Society of Ketamine Physicians, Psychotherapists and Practitioners (ASKP3).[8]
Mandel received a graduate degree in psychology from the University of Cincinnati Graduate School, his MD from the University of Southern California Keck School of Medicine, and did residencies in anesthesiology at the Massachusetts General Hospital and UCLA.[9]

This biographical article related to medicine is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Maksim Zhalmagambetov (Russian: Максим Жалмағамбетов) is a Kazakh football defender. He is currently in the starting XI of the national team.
Maksim had graduated from his hometown FC Astana and had played in its different feeder clubs, before he eventually got to the first team in 2004.
At the age of 21, Maksim earned his first cap on 17 November 2004 in WC 2006 qualifier against Greece. Maksim would have played all Euro 2008 qualifiers, unless being sent off in a match against Azerbaijan for punching a defender in face, and therefore getting 3 games ban.
On 31 January 2008, along with Sergei Ostapenko, Maksim signed a two-year contract with Royal Antwerp F.C. The Belgium team's manager noted that the duo's youth, international experience and physical characteristics were strong arguments to accomplish the deal.[1] However, his European journey was not quite successful and he only started in one game for the reds. Both he and Sergei Ostapenko shortly returned to Astana in the middle of the Kazakhstan Premier League 2008.[2]
Last update: 10 December 2010
Sitalcina rothi is a species of armoured harvestman in the family Phalangodidae.[1][2][3][4] It is found in North America.[1][5]

This harvestmen-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Atholus americanus is a species of clown beetle in the family Histeridae. It is found in North America, ranging from the eastern foothills of the Rocky Mountains to central Quebec, with its southern extents poorly known.[1][2][3][4] It ranges in size from 2.7 to 4.2mm.[4] This species is distinct from other members of Atholus because of its united 5th dorsal and sutural striations and the lack of any subhumeral striations.[4]


This Polyphaga-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Metellina merianae celata (Blackwall, 1841) (Europe)
Metellina merianae is a spider species found in Europe up to Georgia.
They most commonly dwell in the entrances of caves but can also be found in burrows and hollow trees. Web structure is specific to each species.  The webs of M. merianae reach up to about 100 squared cm.[1]State Route 152 (SR 152) is a primary state highway in the U.S. state of Virginia.  The state highway runs 5.18 miles (8.34 km) from U.S. Route 60 (US 60) in Newport News east to US 258 and SR 134 in Hampton. Although running primarily from west to east, it is signed south to north.
SR 152 begins at an intersection with US 60 (Warwick Boulevard) in the Hilton Village neighborhood of the independent city of Newport News.  The state highway heads east as Main Street, a four-lane undivided highway that passes under CSX's Peninsula Subdivision and intersects US 17 and SR 143 (Jefferson Avenue).  SR 152 continues northeast through a residential area to Newmarket Creek, where the highway crosses into the city of Hampton.  The state highway continues east as Todds Lane, which intersects the north–south thoroughfares Big Bethel Road and Hunt Club Boulevard.  When Todds Lane veers southeast, SR 152 continues as Cunningham Drive, a four-lane divided highway.  Just before passing over Interstate 64 (I-64) with no access, the westbound direction receives a ramp from southbound SR 134, which runs concurrently with I-64 for a short distance north of the Interstate's junction with US 258.  SR 152 passes along the north side of Peninsula Town Center and intersects Coliseum Drive, where the highway becomes undivided again.  The state highway curves south to reach its eastern terminus at US 258 and SR 134 (Mercury Boulevard).[1][2]The Information and Communications Laboratory (ICL) is one of eight labs in the Georgia Tech Research Institute. Along with the GTRI Cyber Technology and Information Security Laboratory, it is part of the Information and Cyber Sciences directorate.[2] It conducts a broad range of research in areas of computer science, information technology, communications, networking, and the development of commercial products from university research.
ICL conducts research that solves complex problems involving information processing, storage, representation and exchange; Internet and database technologies and applications; information security and assurance; along with privacy, knowledge management, data visualization, mapping/geographical information, distributed simulation and enterprise information systems. ICL is responsible for the development and maintenance of FalconView.
Researchers work in broadband telecommunications, wireless access systems, multimedia information systems, tactical communications, communications surveillance and disruption, information warfare and assurance, and technology assessment, application integration, and software radio systems.
The GTRI Office of Policy Analysis and Research interprets the public policy aspects of technology, particularly where it is relevant to GTRI's applied research efforts. Specifically, OPAR examines the public policy aspects of technology under development at GTRI and analyzes decisions made in the policy arena that pertain to GTRI's research and development.
ICL also provides C4I capabilities and functional requirements analysis to various service components across the Department of Defense in Northern and Eastern Virginia.
The year 2017 in art involves various significant events.
Brenton See (born 1985/1986)[1] is an Australian artist, known for painting murals, especially of birds.[2][3][4]
See, whose mother is also an artist, studied graphic design at a technical and further education (TAFE) college and undertook an apprenticeship as a tattoo artist.[2]
Locations for his murals include Perth Zoo.[5]
See, a resident of the Fremantle suburb Hilton,[3] has written on his website:[6]
Ever since I was a child I have been fascinated by creatures big and small... An interest in birds came in my early teens... My mother, an amazing craft person herself had always been a massive influence on my creativity and pushed me to start creating my own works.
See's public murals include:[7]
The 1967–68 Los Angeles Kings season was the first season for the Kings in the National Hockey League. The Kings qualified for the Stanley Cup playoffs but lost in their first playoff series.
The Kings were one of six expansion teams, which doubled the size of the league from six to twelve. While the expected favorite bid in Los Angeles was by Dan Reeves, owner of the Western Hockey League's Los Angeles Blades and the NFL's Los Angeles Rams, the league instead awarded a franchise to Jack Kent Cooke, a Canadian who also owned the National Basketball Association's Los Angeles Lakers.[1] The Kings were placed in the newly established West Division, along with the other expansion teams: the California Seals, Minnesota North Stars, Philadelphia Flyers, Pittsburgh Penguins and St. Louis Blues.
Prior to the 1967 NHL Expansion Draft, Cooke arranged a deal with Toronto Maple Leafs left wing Red Kelly, who as a player holds the distinction of playing on the most Stanley Cup championship teams without any of them including time in Montreal, and was set for his retirement, to become the Kings' first head coach. During the draft, the Kings picked goaltenders Terry Sawchuk and Wayne Rutledge with their first picks, and once Maple Leafs' general manager Punch Imlach decided to put Kelly on the protected list on the tenth round, Cooke was forced to send one of his picks, Ken Block, in exchange for his future coach. To not rely only on the draft, Cooke purchased the American Hockey League's Springfield Indians for $1 million to bolster the Kings roster. Long-time Indians player Brian Kilrea would score the Kings' first goal.[2]
Cooke invested heavily on promoting his team, inviting Hollywood stars to the arena, and creating nicknames for most players which he required play-by-play announcer Jiggs McDonald to employ in broadcasts. Still, conditions were chaotic. For the first preseason practice in California, The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour producer Saul Ilson had to bring a puck from his Hollywood office for the Kings to play, as the team's own were unreachable in storage.[1]
The Kings played their home games in three locations during that inaugural campaign. Before the brand new arena built by Cooke and known as The Forum would become their permanent home, the team played their first two games at the Long Beach Arena, and 14 more at the Los Angeles Memorial Sports Arena .[3]  The season opener was against fellow expansion Philadelphia Flyers, a 4–2 victory in Long Beach. While the Inglewood arena was being finished, the Kings struggled to attract consistent crowds, with sellouts only when the "Original Six" visited.[1] The team still played well, only losing on the sixth game, and in the previous one winning their first confrontation against an Original Six team when visiting the Chicago Black Hawks.[1]
The Forum was opened on December 30, and in the Kings' first game ever there, they lost 2–0 to the Philadelphia Flyers, to their largest crowd that far of 14,366 spectators. Given that aside from California Seals the closest team from Los Angeles were the St. Louis Blues, the Kings had to endure long road trips for away games.[1] A new arena led to bigger and more consistent crowds, with the average of 6,045 tickets in the first 16 games rising to 9,725 at the Forum, for combined totals of 8,037 across the 37 home games. Original Six teams still brought larger audiences, with an average of 12,560 fans compared to the 7,432 when receiving fellow expansion teams.[2] The Kings were predicted by writers to finish last in the new West Division.[4] Surprisingly, the Kings finished second, just one point behind the Flyers. The division lead was taken by the Kings with four games remaining once they beat Philadelphia at The Forum, but Los Angeles slipped down one position by failing to win the final three games.[2] The Kings had the best record of any of the expansion teams against the "Original Six", going a respectable 10–12–2, including winning their first two games ever against the legendary Montreal Canadiens. The home record of the Kings was 20–13–4 in their 37 home games spread over 3 arenas. On the road, Los Angeles posted a record of just 11–20–6.
The goaltending tandem of future hall of famer Terry Sawchuk and Wayne Rutledge allowed the team to stay in most games. The roster invested heavily on depth, with eight players having at least 25 points, and four scoring at least 18 goals. The leaders were Bill Flett, who scored 26 goals, while Eddie Joyal scored 23 goals, adding 34 assists for 57 points and was the second leading scorer in the West Division. Defenseman Bill White had  11 goals and 38 points, and had the second most penalty minutes with 100, just one behind Dave Amadio.[2]
The Kings faced off against the Minnesota North Stars in their first-ever playoff series. Although the Kings had home-ice advantage, the North Stars won the best-of-seven series 4–3. Los Angeles got the first two games at the Forum, lost twice in Minnesota, and had a close 3–2 victory on Game 5 to retain the lead. Afterwards, the North Stars won in overtime to force a Game 7 and dominated at the Forum with a 9–4 win.[2] Doug Robinson and Lowell MacDonald led all Kings playoff scorers with seven points, while Eddie Joyal and Gord Labossiere had five points each.



Minnesota North Stars vs. Los Angeles Kings
Minnesota wins best-of-seven series 4–3.
Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; PIM = Penalty minutes
Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; PIM = Penalty minutes
Note: GP = Games played; MIN = Minutes; W = Wins; L = Losses; T = Ties; SO = Shutouts; GAA = Goals against average
The Kings were involved in the following transactions during the 1967–68 season.[8]
KNX 1070 was the radio broadcaster in all games. KTLA covered 20 of the 37 away games through a simulcast. CBS broadcast nationally the first game at the Forum.[9]One Entrance, Many Exits is an album by American jazz pianist Mal Waldron recorded in 1982 and released by the Palo Alto label.[1]
In the Allmusic review by Scott Yanow, he stated: "the combination of musicians works quite well. Pianist Mal Waldron has an inside/outside post bop style that matches perfectly with tenor-saxophonist Joe Henderson, bassist David Friesen and drummer Billy Higgins."[2]The Queen Who Crowns (Korean: 원경) is an upcoming South Korean television series starring Cha Joo-young in the title role, along with Lee Hyun-wook, Lee Yi-dam, and Lee Si-a. It centers around Queen Wongyeong, who seized power with her husband, King Taejong Yi Bang-won, while dreaming of a new world, and depicts the passionate stories hidden between the king and queen, husband and wife, and them. It is scheduled to premiere on TVING on January 6, 2025, and will release every Monday at 14:00 (KST). It will also air on tvN every Monday and Tuesday at 20:50 (KST).
The series depicts the fiery life journey of Queen Wongyeong, who dreamed of a new world in the early Joseon Dynasty and made her husband Lee Bang-won the third king, and who co-founded the royal authority with him.
Director Kim Sang-ho, who worked on the dramas Couple or Trouble (2006), Arang and the Magistrate (2012), Avengers Social Club (2017), and Money Game (2020), confirmed to direct the series, and writer Lee Young-mi, who wrote Money Game, wrote the screenplay.[7] It is produced by Studio Dragon and JS Pictures.[4]
tvN and TVING announced on October 26, 2023, that they had confirmed the production of the historical drama The Queen Who Crowns and cast Cha Joo-young in the role of Queen Wongyeong and Lee Hyun-wook in the role of Lee Bang-won.[7]
The series had finished all its filming in June 2024.[8]
Originally, The Queen Who Crowns was scheduled to air on tvN and TVING in the second half of 2024, but it was postponed.[8] On October 7, 2024, it was reported that the series was scheduled to premiere in January 2025, every Monday and Tuesday.[9] The series was confirmed to premiere on January 6, 2025, and will be pre-released on TVING at 14:00 (KST), and will premiere on tvN at 20:50 (KST).[4]Wyfak Riyadhi M'Sila (Arabic: الوفاق الرياضي للمسيلة), known as WR M'Sila or simply WRM for short, is an Algerian football club based in M'Sila. The club was founded in 1937[1] and its colours are yellow and red. Their home stadium, Ahmed Khalfa Stadium, has a capacity of 5,000 spectators. The club is currently playing in the Ligue Régional I.
The club came third in the 2009–10 Ligue Inter-Régions de football – Groupe Centre.[2]
The club was promoted for the 2010–11 season of the newly created Championnat National de Football Amateur due to the professionalisation of the first two divisions in Algeria.[3]
On August 5, 2020, WR M'Sila were promoted to the Algerian Ligue 2.[4]
Mazyar Asadi (Persian: مازیار اسدی; born 1979) is an Iranian photographer who resides in Canada and specializes in photojournalism.
He has received more than 40 awards and trophies from contests including a gold medal in Canada,[1] silver medal in Canada (2015), silver medal in Turkey,[2] and bronze medals in Spain[3] and Turkey.[4] He was awarded ribbons and honorable mention awards from Canada,[5][6] Romania,[7] UK (2014),[8] and Iran.
Asadi was born in Tehran, Iran. His first work was with major news agencies, websites, and newspapers from 2010. In 2017, he graduated with a BA degree in photojournalism at Tehran News University, in addition to his diploma and Skill Trade Certificates from Iran's Technical and Vocational Training Organization in 2012.
Asadi photographs have been used by news agencies including BBC,[9] The Guardian,[10] Getty Images,[11] Associated Press,[12] CNBC,[13] ABC News,[14] and MSN.[15]
A series of Photo Exhibition by "The Universal Sea" about protecting our sea from pollution, held in the Centre of Polish Sculpture in Oronsko (Poland, 22 April 2018), Baltic Sea Helsinki (Finland, 5–6 June 2018), Pristina (Kosovo 9–10 June 2018), Wattern meer World Heritage Site (Germany, 25 July 2018).[16]
Greyia is a genus of plant in family Francoaceae.[1][2]
It contains three species:
Unlike other plants sometimes included in the family Melianthaceae, Greyia has simple (undivided) leaves, flowers with ten stamens, and ovaries with parietal placentation.[3]  Because of this, the genus has sometimes been placed in a separate family Greyiaceae, but under the APG II system and APG III system of classification, it was included in the Melianthaceae. Under the APG IV system, it is included in the Francoaceae.
This Geraniales-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.Lac Minerals Ltd v International Corona Resources Ltd[2] is a leading Supreme Court of Canada decision on the nature of fiduciary and confidential relationships that can be created in the course of business, together with appropriate remedies for restitution when such relationships are breached.
International Corona was a junior mining company that was investigating the mineral potential of a property at Hemlo in Northern Ontario. Lac Minerals, a senior mining company, heard of Corona's activity and arranged to visit the site. Corona showed Lac's representatives detailed information about their geological findings, together with their underlying theory about its mineral potential and importance. In further discussions about development and financing options, detailed private information was disclosed. Corona was advised by Lac to aggressively pursue the Williams property. The matter of confidentiality was not raised.
Lac proceeded to stake their own claims east of Corona's property, and acquired the adjacent Williams property on which Corona had been negotiating, without the latter having been advised of Lac's intentions. Subsequent attempts by Corona to negotiate the transfer of Lac's interest in the Williams property failed.
Corona formed a joint venture with Teck Corporation to develop a mine on the Corona property, and proceeded to sue Lac for the return of the property.
The trial judge held that there was no binding contract, but Lac was still liable for breach of confidence and breach of fiduciary duty. He ordered the return of the property to Corona, but allowed Lac's claim in part for a lien for the cost of improvements and other payments.
The Ontario Court of Appeal affirmed the trial judge's ruling, also noting that a constructive trust was an appropriate remedy for both the breach of confidence and fiduciary duty.
There were three questions before the Supreme Court of Canada:
The court ruled unanimously that there had been a breach of confidence, and by 3-2 it was held that no fiduciary duty existed in this case, and by 3-2 that the imposition of a constructive trust on Lac in favour of Corona was the appropriate remedy.
There are three conditions that must be present for a fiduciary relationship to exist:
There was no element of dependency shown in this case.
Three elements must exist for a breach of confidence to have occurred:
The law of confidence and the law relating to fiduciary obligations are not coextensive and yet are not completely distinct.  A claim for breach of confidence will only be made out, however, when it is shown that the confidee has misused the information to the detriment of the confider.  Fiduciary law, however, is concerned with the duty of loyalty and does not require that harm result.  Duties of confidence, unlike fiduciary obligations, can arise outside a direct relationship.  Another difference is that breach of confidence also has a jurisdictional base at law, and accordingly can draw on remedies available in both law and equity, whereas fiduciary obligations arise only in equity and can only draw upon equitable remedies.
The court can exercise considerable flexibility in fashioning a remedy for breach of confidence because the action does not rest solely on any one of the traditional jurisdictional bases for action - contract, equity or property - but is sui generis and relies on all three.
The constructive trust was the only appropriate remedy here, given the uniqueness of the property, given the fact Corona would have acquired the property but for Lac's breaches of duty, and given the virtual impossibility of accurately valuing the property. In addition, it was the only just remedy, regardless of whether it was based on breach of confidence or breach of a fiduciary relationship.  The remedies available under one head are those available to the other.  Given a breach of a duty of confidence, the finding of a fiduciary relationship was not strictly necessary.
The noteworthy aspect is that the Court is reluctant to impose fiduciary duties on arm's-length commercial parties, and that such duties should not supplant or amplify other more appropriate causes for action.
The consequences attendant on a finding of a fiduciary relationship and its breach have resulted in judicial reluctance to do so except where the application of this "blunt tool of equity" is really necessary.  It is rare that it is required in the context of an arm's length commercial transaction. 
...the fact that confidential information is obtained and misused cannot itself create a fiduciary obligation.  No doubt one of the possible incidents of a fiduciary relationship is the exchange of confidential information and restrictions on its use.  Where, however, the essence of the complaint is misuse of confidential information, the appropriate cause of action in favour of the party aggrieved is breach of confidence and not breach of fiduciary duty.[3]
The decision has also served to consolidate the law in Canada on the nature and use of confidential information,[4] as well as to clarify the nature of fiduciary relationships and duties in Canadian law.[5][6]
Lac Minerals further confirms the divergence of Canadian common-law jurisprudence on constructive trusts to that of English law, which began to arise in Pettkus v. Becker. While English law is based on the concept of institutional constructive trusts (as it was later described by Lord Browne-Wilkinson in Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale v Islington London Borough Council), Canadian courts have broadened it to include remedial constructive trusts. Australian and New Zealand jurisprudence can be characterized as falling in between the other two.[7]Kalatak (Persian: كلاتك, also Romanized as Kalātaḵ) is a village in Cheraghabad Rural District, Tukahur District, Minab County, Hormozgan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 251, in 52 families.[1]


This Minab County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Hamaederus glaberrimus is a species in the longhorn beetle family Cerambycidae. It is found in Brazil.[1][2][3][4]
This species is sometimes treated as a member of the genus Plocaederus.[2]

This Cerambycini article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.Direct electric action is a systems used in pipe organs  to control the flow of air (wind) into the organ's pipes when the corresponding keys or pedals are depressed. In direct electric action, the valves beneath the pipes are opened directly by electro-magnet solenoids, while with electro-pneumatic action, the electro-magnet's action admits air into a pneumatic or small bellows which in turn operates the pipe's valve.
Other types of actions used in pipe organs are tracker action, using mechanical linkage of rods and levers, and tubular-pneumatic action which utilizes a change of pressure within lead tubing which connects the key to the valve pneumatic.

This electronics-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
United Nations Security Council resolution 1051, adopted unanimously on 27 March 1996, after reaffirming resolutions 687 (1991), 707 (1991) and 715 (1991) on the monitoring of Iraq's weapons programme, the council approved a mechanism for monitoring Iraq's imports and exports of "dual use" items.[1]
The Security Council noted proposals from resolutions 661 (1991), 687 (1991) and 715 (1991) for the United Nations Special Commission and director of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to develop a mechanism to monitor Iraqi imports and exports of weapons in a letter received on 7 December 1995.
Acting under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, the security council approved the proposals in the letter subject to the provisions of the current resolution. It was affirmed that the mechanism would not impair the operation of future or existing non-proliferation agreements, and that requests for sales to Iraq made by countries or Iraqi requests to export items should be addressed to the commission established in Resolution 661.
All countries were asked about arms supplies to Iraq and to submit information to the joint unit of the commission and the IAEA, and to notify the joint unit of any attempts by companies to circumvent the mechanism, and also cases where Iraq has not followed procedure.[2] Within 45 days, member states were to be provided with the relevant information from the special commission and director general of the IAEA regarding the implementation of the procedures of the mechanism. The security council demanded that Iraq meet all its obligations under the mechanism.[3]
Commencing on 11 April 1996, the Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali and the director general of the IAEA were required to report periodically on progress every six months.Getis–Ord statistics, also known as Gi*, are used in spatial analysis to measure the local and global spatial autocorrelation. Developed by statisticians Arthur Getis and J. Keith Ord they are commonly used for Hot Spot Analysis[1][2] to identify where features with high or low values are spatially clustered in a statistically significant way. Getis-Ord statistics are available in a number of software libraries such as CrimeStat, GeoDa, ArcGIS, PySAL[3] and R.[4][5]
There are two different versions of the statistic, depending on whether the data point at the target location 

Josu Hernáez Lopetegui (born 4 July 1985) is a Spanish footballer who plays as a forward.
Born in Eibar, Gipuzkoa, Basque Country, Hernáez played for SD Eibar's youth setup before eventually joining seven-a-side football. In the 2004 summer he moved to SCD Durango, and made his debuts as a senior during the campaign, in Tercera División. In 2006, he returned to Eibar, being assigned to the main squad in Segunda División B.[1]
On 13 July 2007 Hernáez joined Athletic Bilbao, being assigned to the reserves also in the third level.[2] However, after featuring rarely with the Lions, he moved to another reserve team, Real Zaragoza B on 18 January of the following year.[3]
In September 2008 Hernáez suffered a serious knee injury which took him out of the entire 2008–09 season.[4] He was later released by the Aragonese, and moved to Sestao River Club in the 2009 summer.
On 29 August 2014 Hernáez joined Segunda División's CD Mirandés.[5] He made his professional debut on 14 September, aged 29, playing the entire second half in a 0–1 away loss against CD Tenerife.[6]
A wet T-shirt contest is a competition involving exhibitionism, typically featuring young female contestants at a nightclub, bar, or resort. Wet T-shirt contestants generally wear thin white or light-colored T-shirts without bras, bikini tops, or other garments beneath. Water (often ice water) is then sprayed or poured onto the participants' chests, causing their T-shirts to turn translucent and cling to their breasts. The comparatively rarer male equivalent is the wet boxer contest, sometimes held at gay bars.[1][full citation needed][2][3]
Contestants may take turns dancing or posing before the audience, with the outcome decided either by crowd reaction or by judges' vote. In racier contests, participants may tear or crop their T-shirts to expose their midriffs, cleavage, or the undersides of their breasts. Depending on local laws, participants may be allowed to remove their T-shirts or strip completely naked during their performance.
In the United States, skiing filmmaker Dick Barrymore claims in his memoir Breaking Even to have held the first wet T-shirt contest at Sun Valley, Idaho's Boiler Room Bar in January 1971, as part of a promotion for K2 skis.[4] The contest was promoted as a simple "T-shirt contest" in which airline stewardesses would dance to music wearing K2 promotional T-shirts. However, the first contestant to appear was a professional stripper who danced topless and the amateur contestants responded by drenching their T-shirts before competing. Barrymore held a second "K2 Wet T-Shirt Contest" in the Rusty Nail at Stowe Mountain Resort, Vermont in order to film it, despite the fact that Stowe City Council had passed a resolution banning nudity at the event.[5] He held another promotional contest for K2 on 10 March 1971 at Aspen, Colorado's The Red Onion restaurant and bar,[4][6] and the contests were featured in a pictorial in the March 1972 issue of Playboy.[7]
The first known mention of the term wet T-shirt contest in the press occurred in 1975 in The Palm Beach Post, describing the contest's appearance at New Orleans discotheques. The contest subsequently became established at spring break events in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, with some bar owners being fined under public indecency laws for holding one.[8][9] Despite a lack of clarity as to their legal status, contests began to take place elsewhere in the United States. A contest in a Milwaukee tavern in 1976 was subject to a police raid, despite contestants wearing Scotch Tape under their T-shirts as required by the police.[10]
Jacqueline Bisset's appearance in the 1977 film The Deep, where she swam underwater wearing only a T-shirt for a top, helped to bring the wet T-shirt contest to broader public awareness.[11] On Frank Zappa's 1979 album Joe's Garage the track "Fembot in a Wet T-Shirt" tells of Mary from Canoga Park who takes part in a wet T-shirt contest in order to raise money to return home after being abandoned by a rock group in Miami.[12]
The 2003 American reality film The Real Cancun included a wet T-shirt contest.[13]
The Spanish festival of La Tomatina, a large public tomato fight where participants become soaked with juice from tomatoes, has been suggested as another possible origin of the wet T-shirt contest, although La Tomatina began in 1945.[11][9]
In 1983, the King & Spalding law firm in Atlanta asked female summer interns attending that firm's annual picnic to participate in a wet T-shirt contest. The proposed contest was replaced with a swimsuit competition and the winner was promised a permanent job on graduation.[14] Some participants said they felt humiliated but did not protest because they were candidates for jobs with the firm. The Wall Street Journal included details of the event in a front-page article on sex discrimination in large law firms.[15] The fact that a wet T-shirt contest was proposed led to the case being used to demonstrate institutional sexism in law firms.[16]
In 1998, teenagers from Portland, Oregon, celebrating the completion of high school held a wet T-shirt contest on a Boeing 727 en route to a Mexican resort, with a flight attendant encouraging the activity. An FAA investigation followed, as pilots supposedly judged the contest on the flight deck, disregarding rules that passengers are not allowed in the cockpit. A video showed contestants emerging from the cockpit wearing wet T-shirts. The FAA disciplined the pilots for sexual misconduct.[17]
Lawsuits have been filed on behalf of underaged contestants who lied about their age to participate in wet T-shirt contests.
In 2002, the parents of teenager Monica Pippin brought a federal lawsuit against Playboy Entertainment, Anheuser-Busch, Deslin Hotels, Best Buy, and other companies relating to her appearance the previous year in a Daytona Beach wet T-shirt contest, at which time she had been a 16-year-old high school student. Pippin had danced topless during the contest and had allowed men to pour jugs of water over her bare breasts. After footage of her performance began to appear in videos and on cable television, a neighbor alerted Pippin's parents, who retained a lawyer. Although Pippin admitted in court that she had lied to contest organizers about her age, her attorney claimed that, as a minor, she was unable to give informed consent to perform or be filmed topless. Pippin settled with Anheuser-Busch and Playboy in April 2006.[18][19]
In a similar suit in 2007, two women sued Deslin Hotels, Girls Gone Wild, and various websites that published footage of their appearance in another 2001 Daytona Beach contest. The two girls, who were both sixteen at the time, had been filmed exposing their breasts, buttocks, and pubic areas. Like Pippin, they had lied about their age to gain admission to the contest.[20]The Jihad Museum is located in the western provincial capital of Herat in Afghanistan.  It was built in 2010 as a place for Afghans to understand past conflicts and their history.  Since its opening, the museum has welcomed many visitors, including U.S. congressmen and the deputy commander of NATO forces in Afghanistan.[1]  The museum seeks to inform visitors of the mujahideen's plight and to educate Afghans.[2]  It is a memorial to the mujahideen heroes who fought the Soviets in the 70s and 80s as well as to the Afghans who lost their lives fighting.
The museum is designed as a blue, green and white rotunda.  The outside of the building is inscribed with some of the names of victims of the war, both men and women.[2]  There are also several poems dedicated to martyrs covering the rotunda.[3]  Located in a park on a hilltop, the Jihad Museum is surrounded by a garden with flowers and fountains.
The Jihad Museum contains several exhibitions that are open continuously and deal with various topics pertaining to the mujahideen battles against the Soviets.
Afghanistan has been in conflict for decades but there has rarely been a place for citizens to reflect on the events of war and how it has affected them.  As many Afghans have not received a formal education, they don't necessarily know why their ancestors fought against the Soviets.  School texts tend to stop at the 1970s as to not aggravate tensions.[2]  The exhibits depict the brutality and human effects of war through the murals, diorama and inscription of names surrounding the rotunda.  This message of the horror of war permeates the museum.  The creators were careful to depoliticize the exhibits by not depicting the jihadist battles that followed the war with the Soviets.  Visitors can ponder how they want their history to progress following the end of the NATO combat mission in 2014.[2]
Starrett Corporation, formerly known as Starrett Brothers, Inc. and Starrett Brothers and Eken,[1][2] is a real estate development and construction firm known for having built the Empire State Building, Stuyvesant Town, Starrett City and Trump Tower in New York City.
Founded in 1922 (102 years ago) (1922)[1] and incorporated in Dover, Delaware, in February 1929,[2] the company's initial capitalization was 1,500,000 shares of stock of no par value. Incorporators were Alfred G. Mueller, Alfred W. Boser, and Atlee W. Estarbrook, of New York City.[3]
With its subsidiaries the business had a total capitalization of approximately $40,000,000. Starrett Corporation acquired all of the capital stock of Starrett Brothers, a building company. Starrett Corporation was involved in construction and financing of buildings in the major urban centers of the United States. Paul Starrett became chairman of the board and William A. Starrett served as president and a director.[2]
In 1963, Robert Olnick became president and shifted the focus to building low and middle income housing which did not require financing as they were funded by the government.[4] In 1970, Henry Benach purchased a quarter of the company's stock and became president. He renamed the company Starrett Housing Corporation.[4] In 1977, Starrett purchased H.R.H. Construction (founded by Saul Horowitz in 1925) which became a subsidiary.[4] In 1978, Starrett acquired Levitt Corporation (founded by Abraham Levitt in 1938) from the ITT Corporation.[4] In 1995, the company was renamed Starrett Corporation.[4]
In June 1997, Jacob Frydman, attempted to purchase the company for $84 million, $12.25 per share, after reaching an agreement with brothers Paul Milstein and Seymour Milstein who owned 33% of Starrett's shares and president Henry Benach who owned 19% of Starrett's shares.[5][6]  In October 1997 Mr. Paul Milstein, Chairman of Starrett announced that the company was being sold to affiliates of Manhattan-based Lawrence Ruben Co., Blackacre Capital Group, Amroc Investments and Argent Ventures.[7][8]
A few months after the closing of the acquisition of Starrett by Lawrence Ruben Co., Blackacre Capital Group, Amroc Investments and Argent Ventures, the company announced that Joel Simon, a former executive of Olympia & York Companies (U.S.A.), will become its new chief executive office[9]
One subsidiary, the Starrett Building Company of Chicago, Illinois, erected the steel girders on the National Parking Garage in Chicago, in 1929.[10] Two other subsidiaries were the Starrett Investing Corporation and the Wall and Hanover Streets Realty Company. The latter subsidiary owned the thirty-five story Wall and Hanover Building at 59 - 63 Wall Street, Manhattan.[2]
Starrett Corporation's subsidiaries also include the Levitt Corporation, which built tract housing following World War II. More recently the company maintained a successful home building business in Puerto Rico and Florida.[6]
Michael Andrew (born 27 September 1943) is a former Malaysian cyclist. He competed in the individual road race at the 1964 Summer Olympics, but did not finish.[1]

This biographical article relating to Malaysian cycling is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Carcraft was an independent group of used car hypermarkets established in 1951 in Rochdale, Greater Manchester, England, with eleven locations around the country. Stocking cars from Alfa Romeo to Volvo. Carcraft was established by Frank McKee, and was bought out in July 1998 by his sons Noel and Darren McKee. This was in a £50 million deal, backed by the Royal Bank of Scotland's Development Capital arm.[1]
Carcraft was established in 1951, by Frank McKee in Rochdale. In July 1998, his sons Noel and Darren McKee bought the business from him in a deal backed by the Royal Bank of Scotland’s Development Capital arm, valuing it at £50 million.[2] In April 2000, Carcraft acquired a car supermarket located in Newport from Car Group for £10 million, whilst Car Group was in receivership.
It also purchased a former Carland store located in Sheffield.[3] In December 2000, Carcraft was put on sale, with a price tag of £200 million.[4]
In December 2005, Carcraft became the first independent second hand vehicle retailer to create and found a contract hire car company.[5] Named ‘All in One leasing’, the business provided services to companies who have small to medium fleets of cars, with Carcraft leasing them new vehicles, then replacing them and selling the used vehicles at its used car supermarkets throughout the country. In October 2006, Carcraft acquired another four sites from Carland, which were located in Chertsey, Enfield, Lakeside, and Stockport.[6]
In April 2014, a management buyout was led by current Chief Executive Robin Bridge, and was backed by Apollo Ventures, for an undisclosed sum. On 30 April 2015, the company was placed into administration, suffering substantial losses and failing to keep up with rival marketing (marketing spend was £100k a week with a return of average sales of two hundred cars a week). Staff were told by the administrators the very same day leaving over five hundred people, with no redundancy pay or notice.[7]
The Carcraft brand is now owned by the Rix brothers, Reg and Louis Rix, who also own Carfinance247,[8]  a firm fined £30,000 in September 2016 for sending 65,000 spam text messages.[9]
In April 2011, Carcraft received recognition from Experian, for achieving the number one most visited website for the UK Automotive and Dealership category, earning it an Experian Hitwise Top 10 Award. It also received a Quality Driven Award, for exceptional customer service, awarded by Steve Hodgkinson from Easi Drive.[10]
Carcraft had eleven showrooms located across the United Kingdom. There were centres in the following areas:
Jane Renfrew, Lady Renfrew of Kaimsthorn FSA FSA Scot is a British archaeologist and paleoethnobotanist noted for her studies on the use of plants in prehistory, the origin and development of agriculture, food and wine in antiquity, and the origin of the vine and wine in the Mediterranean.[2]
Jane Renfrew was born to the Venerable Walter Frederick Ewbank.[1] Since a young age she has shown an interest in the past, having participated in her first archaeological excavation when she was just 12 years old.[3]
As an undergraduate at New Hall, Cambridge, she published her first book entitled "Antiquary on Horseback" (1963),[4] with her maiden name. The volume resulted from transcribing and editing manuscripts left by Thomas Machell, rector of Kirkby Thore, Cumbria. During this period she also gained an interest in botany, and consequently paleoethnobotany. At Cambridge she met Colin Renfrew, with whom she married and had 3 children (Helena Renfrew-Knight, Alban Renfrew, Magnus Renfrew).[1]
She took part in excavations in Greece (Nea Nikomedeia, Saliagos and Sitagroi)[5] and the Balkans and during this time collected seeds[6] both at excavations and museums in the region, samples which would be the basis for her doctoral thesis at Cambridge.[7]
Between 1967–1972, she was a lecturer in the Department of Ancient History, at the University of Sheffield and later was a Visiting Lecturer at the Department of Archaeology of the University of Southampton.[8]
In 1981, she returned to Cambridge, where she was a Fellow and Director of Studies of Archaeology Lucy Cavendish College, Cambridge[9] and the Master's wife at Jesus College (1986-1997).[8] At Lucy Cavendish College she has also held the positions of Vice-President, Secretary to the Governing Body, Tutor, College Lecturer, Fellow Librarian, Secretary to the Trustees and as Garden Steward.[8] As Garden steward she was responsible for creating in 1987 the "Anglo-Saxon Herb Garden" (a collection of plants used before 1066), which is open to the general public.[10]
In 2012 she donated a large part of her private library to Archaeological Unit and Botanical Gardens Library of the University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro.[11][12][7] In acknowledgement of her donation, her work in the field of archaeology and paleoethnobotany, as well as her role in the boards of Kew Gardens and Cambridge Botanical Garden[7][12] the prehistoric garden (called "Ages of Man" / Idades do Homem) was created at the University's Botanical Gardens in her honour, which she inaugurated in 2013.[13]
Presently she is a Senior Fellow of the McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research[14] and Emeritus Fellow of Lucy Cavendish College, Cambridge.[15]
The Stanley Smith Horticultural Trust funded the creation of a wildlife pond at Lucy Cavendish in recognition of her contribution to the Lucy Cavendish College, its gardens and the University of Cambridge.[17]
The University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro (UTAD) gave her a Medal of Honour in recognition for the donation of her personal library (with books in archaeology, prehistory, history, botany, biology and related sciences) to the Archaeological Unit, Department of Geology and the Botanical Gardens of UTAD.[11][12][7]
Charles Martin Robertson (11 September 1911 – 26 December 2004), known as Martin Robertson, was a British classical scholar and poet. He specialised in the art and archaeology of Ancient Greece, and was best known for his 1975 publication, A History of Greek Art.
Born in Pangbourne, Robertson was the son of a classicist and the brother of a noted art historian. He was educated at The Leys School and Trinity College, Cambridge, and took part in archaeological excavations from 1930. After a period at the British School at Athens, he joined the British Museum in 1936, where he became an apprentice of the art historian Bernard Ashmole. During the Second World War, Robertson served briefly in the Royal Signals before being transferred to intelligence work, in which capacity he was a subordinate of the archaeologist Alan Wace and a colleague of the Soviet double agent Kim Philby.
Robertson succeeded Ashmole as Yates Professor of Classical Art and Archaeology at University College London in 1948. He returned to the BSA in 1957–1958, and became chair of its governing council in 1959. In 1961, once again following Ashmole, he was appointed Lincoln Professor of Classical Archaeology and Art at the University of Oxford, where he remained until his retirement in 1978. Alongside his archaeological work, Robertson wrote and published poetry, releasing four collections of his works in the 1970s. He died in Cambridge in 2004.
Robertson's archaeological publications included material from Ithaca and Perachora in Greece and from the site of Al-Mina in Syria. His work on Greek art developed that of John Beazley, who had pioneered the study of Attic vase-painting in the first half of the twentieth century. His History of Greek Art remained a standard reference for many decades, and in 1983 the museum curator Ian Jenkins wrote that "there can be few students of Greek art who would not readily admit their debt to him".[1]: 208
Charles Martin Robertson was born in Pangbourne, Berkshire, the eldest child of Donald Struan Robertson and Petica Coursolles, née Jones. His mother hosted a literary salon;[2]: 321  his father was a classicist, appointed Regius Professor of Greek at the University of Cambridge in 1930.[3]: 557 [2]: 321  His childhood friends included Kim Philby, later a double agent for the Soviet union within the British Secret Intelligence Service.[2]: 324
Martin Robertson, as he was always known, attended The Leys School and Trinity College, Cambridge. His Cambridge contemporaries included Philby, the art historian Dale Trendall and the politician Enoch Powell.[2]: 322  He attended his first excavations in 1930, in the summer before his matriculation at Trinity,[2]: 321  at Perachora in the Corinthia, under the directorship of the archaeologist Humfry Payne. He graduated from Trinity in 1934 with a First in part two of tripos.[2]: 322  Later, in 1934–1936, Robertson moved to Athens as a student of the British School, where Payne was the director.[3]: 557  At the BSA, he worked on Iron Age material from the excavation of Ithaca.[2]: 322
Robertson returned to England in 1936 as Assistant Keeper in the Greek and Roman department of the British Museum, cataloguing the pottery from the excavations at Al-Mina in Syria led by Leonard Woolley in 1936–1937.[2]: 323  In 1937–1938, staff in the department carried out an aggressive cleaning of the Elgin Marbles, using copper chisels and highly abrasive silicon carbide, at the request of the entrepreneur Joseph Duveen; Duveen wanted the sculptures, originally painted, to look whiter for their display in a new gallery which he was funding.[4] Robertson was the only junior Assistant Keeper not involved in the cleaning, and so the only one to keep his job; however, he was demoted in seniority. As a consequence of the dismissals, Denys Haynes was recruited as an Assistant Keeper, and the art historian Bernard Ashmole, then the Yates Professor of Classical Art and Archaeology at University College London, was brought in on a part-time basis to run the Department of Greek and Roman Antiquities. Haynes and Robertson became lifelong friends, and Robertson later wrote of the "precious apprenticeship" he gained from working with Ashmole.[2]: 323
Robertson attended a classical conference in Berlin in August 1939, on behalf of the British Museum; he was recalled shortly before the outbreak of the Second World War. From 23 August, he took part in the removal of material from the museum to London Underground stations and country houses, so as to protect the artefacts from bombing.[2]: 323  In 1940, he enlisted in the British Army as a member of the Royal Signals, but was soon transferred to the Intelligence Corps and trained to work in cryptanalysis at Bletchley Park. In an obituary of Robertson, the archaeologist Brian Sparkes wrote that his military service was largely unsuccessful and characterised by "mind-numbing boredom".[2]: 323–324  In late 1942, shortly after the end of the Second Battle of El Alamein in November, he was sent to Cairo to work with Alan Wace, a fellow archaeologist and former director of the BSA, who had requested Robertson's assistance in carrying out intelligence work in the British embassy there. Due to an administrative mistake, he was transferred to Naples instead of to Athens in 1943–1944, and later served in Salonica in Greece alongside Philby.[2]: 324
Robertson left the army in 1946,[2]: 325  and returned to the British Museum, where he assisted in returning the evacuated collections to the galleries.[5] He resigned in 1948 to succeed Ashmole as Yates Professor at UCL. He was a visiting fellow of the BSA for the 1957–1958 academic year.[2]: 322  In 1959, he published his first book, Greek Painting, in which he used vase-paintings and work in other media to try to recreate the lost wall-paintings known only through textual references. Between 1959 and 1968. he was chair of the governing council of the BSA.[2]: 322  In 1961 Robertson again succeeded Ashmole, this time as Lincoln Professor of Classical Archaeology and Art at the University of Oxford, in which role he served until his retirement in 1978. He edited the second volume of the BSA's excavations at Perachora in 1962. In 1968–1969, he was a visiting scholar at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey; he also held a visiting appointment at the J. Paul Getty Museum, then in Malibu, in 1930.[5]
From 1994,[2]: 330  Robertson suffered from Guillain–Barré syndrome and myasthenia gravis. He died of cardiovascular disease and bronchopneumonia at home in Cambridge on 26 December 2004, and was buried in Cambridge City cemetery.[5]
As a scholar, Robertson is best remembered for his work on Greek art, in particular vase painting. He developed the techniques of attribution developed by the Oxford art historian John Beazley. When Beazley died in 1970, Robertson and another of Beazley's students, Dietrich von Bothmer, updated and enlarged Beazley's earlier lists of painters, Paralipomena: Additions to Attic Black-Figure Vase-Painters and to Attic Red-Figure Vase-Painters, published in 1971.[5] Among his students at UCL was the Mycenaean archaeologist Lisa French, who completed her doctorate in 1961.[6]: 461
Robertson's History of Greek Art, which first appeared in 1975, was still considered an authoritative text and used for its breadth of learning and deep understanding of the topic in the twenty-first century.[5] 1975, too, saw the publication of The Parthenon Frieze, a joint project between Martin and the photographer Alison Frantz. In 1982, he received a Festschrift, The Eye of Greece, edited by Donna Kurtz and Brian Sparkes.[7] Robertson's work on Athenian red-figure vase-painting culminated in The Art of Vase-Painting in Classical Athens, published in 1992 while he was in his eighties. The museum curator Ian Jenkins wrote in 1983 that "there can be few students of Greek art who would not readily admit their debt to him".[1]: 208
...But I'd talked enough. I laid the girl
down among the flowers. A soft cloak spread,
my arm around her neck, I comforted
her fear. The fawn soon ceased to flee.
Over her breasts my hand moved gently,
the new-formed girlhood she bared for me;
over all her body, the nude skin bare,
I spilt my white force, just touching her yellow hair.
As a poet Robertson published various collections, including Crooked Connections (1970), For Rachel (1972), A Hot Bath at Bedtime (1975), and The Sleeping Beauty's Prince (1977). He also published translations of Greek poetry,[5] including one of a fragment of an erotic work by Archilochus discovered in 1974.[8]
Robertson's mother was killed in 1941 while serving as an air raid warden in Cambridge.[2]: 324  His paternal aunt, Agnes Arber, was a botanist: she was the third woman and the first female life scientist to be granted membership of the Royal Society.[9] Another paternal aunt was Margaret Hills, a suffragist organiser and the first woman to sit on Stroud Urban District Council.[10]  His brother, Giles Henry Robertson, was a professor of art history at the University of Edinburgh.[3]: 557
Robertson married (Theodosia) Cecil, née Spring Rice, on 4 September 1942:[5] the couple had six children, including the musician Thomas Dolby[11] and the computer scientist Stephen Robertson.[12] Their first child, Lucy, was born while Martin was posted to Cairo, and raised by Cecil in Iken in Suffolk.[2]: 324  Cecil Robertson died in an accident in 1984.[5][2]: 325  Martin remarried in 1988, to Louise Berge (née Holstein), who had been his graduate student at Oxford in the late 1960s.[5][13][2]: 330Monaldi is an Italian surname. Notable people with the surname include:
Concrete is a live album by the British band Pet Shop Boys. It was released on 23 October 2006.
Due to be called Concert, on 20 September 2006, Pet Shop Boys announced that the album was going to be called Concrete, which was the title that they originally wanted for the album. It is the first live concert to be released by the band on Audio CD.
The performance recorded for the album took place at the Mermaid Theatre on 8 May 2006, as an exclusive for broadcast on BBC Radio 2's Sold on Song programme. Attendance, totalling 600, was by invitation or through winning competitions held by Radio 2 and the band's official website. The event was hosted by the BBC's Stuart Maconie.
The 27 May Radio 2 broadcast included an interview conducted by Maconie, but excluded four songs from the running order ("You Only Tell Me You Love Me When You're Drunk", "After All", "Numb", and "Dreaming of the Queen"). The full concert was later broadcast on BBC 6 Music on 28 August.
Due to the presence of the orchestra, the setlist was composed to consist of songs originally recorded with an orchestra. Consequently, aside from an extensive selection of songs from Fundamental, various non-studio album tracks were chosen, including the arrangement of "Rent" from the Liza Minnelli album Results, originally arranged by Angelo Badalamenti; "After All", the portion of the band's Battleship Potemkin soundtrack that accompanies the Odessa Steps sequence from the film (performed with the scene projected on a screen in the background); "Friendly Fire", from the Closer to Heaven musical; and "Nothing Has Been Proved", the theme song from Scandal, also arranged by Badalamenti.
"West End Girls" and "It's a Sin" were the only exceptions to the rule, and were reworked to integrate the orchestra.
Pet Shop Boys are:
Other musicians:
Guest singers:
See text
Lienardia is a genus of sea snails, marine gastropod mollusks in the family Clathurellidae.[1]The Bilbao Choral Society (Sociedad Coral de Bilbao) is an association devoted to fostering musical activity. Founded in 1886 under the name "Orfeón Bilbaíno", the Bilbao Choir (in Basque known as "Bilboko Koral Elkartea") is a non-profit cultural association declared "of General Interest" by the Basque Autonomous Government.[1] Nowadays it comprises three adult choirs and a conservatory choir.
During its long life, the Society has been awarded numerous prizes and distinctions, both in Spain and abroad, such as the Medal of Merit in the Beautiful Arts on the occasion of its 100th anniversary.
The senior Choir started in 1886 with Choirmaster Cleto Zabala, featuring only male voices. A few years later women were admitted.  Throughout the choir's long career, it has been conducted by the following masters: Aureliano Valle, Jesús Guridi, Arturo Inchausti, Timoteo Urrengoechea, J. M. Olaizola, Modesto Arana, Rafael Frühbeck de Burgos, Juan Cordero, Urbano Ruiz Laorden, Julen Ezkurra, Gorka Sierra, Iñaki Moreno, Joan Cabero, Julio Gergely  and actually by Enrique Azurza.
The Choir specialises in the great Symphonic-choral repertoire and  has worked with many important conductors, namely: Fernández Arbós, Pérez Casas, Wladimir Golscham, Jesús Arámbarri, Lamote de Grignon, Ataúlfo Argenta, Jascha Horenstein, Sir Malcolm Sargent, Odón Alonso, Antoni Ros Marbá, Miguel Ángel Gómez Martínez, Moshe Atzmon, Mstislav Rostropovich, Theo Alcántara, Michel Plasson, Víctor Pablo Pérez, Jan Lathan-Koenig, Arturo Tamayo, Aldo Ceccato, Hans Graf, Juanjo Mena, Gianandrea Noseda, Elio Boncompagni, Michaël Schönwadt, Georges Prêtre, Alexander Rahbari, John Nelson, Josep Pons, Jerzy Semkow, Alexandre Dmitriev, Yutaka Sado, Martin Haselböck, Michiyoshi Inoue, Eric Whitacre and Christoph Spering.
The Bilbao Choir regularly takes part in Stage Productions of operas and zarzuelas and even representations of works like Debussy's Le Martyre de Saint Sébastien, together with the avant-garde stage company La Fura dels Baus.
The work of the  Society also includes choral works and operas of composers such as Mikis Theodorakis' Medea, 1990; premiered at the Arriaga Theatre in Bilbao), and Francisco Escudero's Gernika, an opera in concert version.
The Choir has premiered in Spain such works as Brahms' Ein deutsches Requiem, Orff's Carmina Burana,  Verdi's Requiem, Ligeti's Requiem, Mendelssohn's Elijah and Vaughan Williams' Hodie. A female section of the choir presented in the Guggenheim Bilbao Museum atrium Mike Oldfield's Music of the Spheres.
Recent recordings, mostly of stage music include Goyescas, an opera by Enrice Granados, Puccini's Turandot, Francisco Escudero's Gernika as well as Jesús Guridi's Amaya and El Caserío.
The Euskeria Choir is the junior choir of the society. It is currently conducted by Urko Sangroniz.
The Conservatory Choir, or Childrens Choir, was founded in 1984 by Gorka Sierra. José Luis Ormazabal has been chorus master since 1995. The Choir has performed all over Spain, including the Auditorio Nacional in Madrid, with Mahler's 8th Symphony. Their most relevant recording includes works by Spanish composers Antón García Abril and Jesús Guridi.
Leelanau State Park is a public recreation area covering 1,550 acres (630 ha) on the Leelanau Peninsula in Leelanau County, Michigan. The state park encompasses the tip of the peninsula and is the home of the Grand Traverse Lighthouse.[2]
In addition to the lighthouse museum, the park offers 8.5 miles (13.7 km) of hiking and skiing trails, picnicking, playground, cabins, and rustic camping.[2]William Spence (sometimes shown as Spense) was an early Virginia colonist on Jamestown Island. He was member of the first assembly of the Virginia House of Burgesses in Jamestown, Virginia in 1619. Spence became an ensign in the local militia and is thus sometimes identified as Ensign William Spence or Ensign Spence. He was an early farmer on Jamestown Island, a tobacco taster and landowner at Archer's Hope. He, his wife and his young daughter, Sara, or Sarah, avoided the Indian massacre of 1622, but Spence and his wife were reported "lost" at the census of February 16, 1624.[1]
William Spence is sometimes erroneously conflated with William Spencer (burgess), another early Virginia colonist who also lived on Jamestown Island but did not arrive at Jamestown until 1611.[2] William Spencer later became a member of the House of Burgesses for Mulberry Island in 1632–33, eight years after William Spence was lost and presumed dead.[3][note 1]
William Spence came to Virginia in the First Supply mission to Jamestown in 1608.[1] He is sometimes  shown in modern printed lists of passengers as both a "gentleman" and a "labourer," not only a double listing, but in seemingly inconsistent categories.[4] On the other hand, in the names of those arriving at Jamestown in the First Supply voyage in Captain 
John Smith's The General History, Book 3, Chapter 4, as reprinted in Haile at page 252, Spence is only listed as a "gentleman."[note 2]
Martha McCartney supports John Smith's statement that Spence "reportedly" was the first farmer to work his own land on Jamestown Island.[1] She also states that in 1618 Spence offered to employ workers of the late governor, Sir Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr, after West had died at sea while returning to the colony from England in summer 1618.[5] West's subordinate, Captain Edward Brewster, to whom Spence made the offer, was prevented from taking custody of his goods by Deputy Governor Samuel Argall, who misappropriated West's laborers and artisans to work on his own projects.[6]
Ensign William Spence, along with Captain William Powell), were members of the first general assembly of the Virginia House of Burgesses for Jamestown in July–August 1619.[1][7]
In 1619, as a "tobacco taster", Spence evaluated the quality of tobacco by sampling portions of the tobacco crop.[1]
Because of his early arrival at Jamestown and continued residence there, Spence was considered an "Ancient planter", which was simply a descriptive term. Ancient planters were early Virginia colonists who arrived when the colony was managed by the Virginia Company of London. They received land grants if they stayed in the colony for at least three years. Under the terms of the "Instructions to Governor Yeardley" issued by the London Company in 1618, these colonists received the first land grants in Virginia.[note 3]
In January 1619, William Spence along with John Fowler received a patent for 300 acres in Archer's Hope, a few miles from Jamestown.[1][note 4] Since Spence continued to live at Jamestown Island, McCartney surmises that he placed indentured servants on the property along with his partner, John Fowler, who lived there.[1] Fowler and four others, not including Spence or his wife, were killed in the Indian massacre of 1622 at Spence's house at Archer's Hope.[1][8] A list of Virginia land patents sent to England in 1625 included 300 acres in Archer's Hope in the name of William Spence.[1]
Spence had been in England in early 1622 and he returned on the James, which departed for Jamestown on July 21, 1622.[1] The February 16, 1624 census of the Virginia colony's inhabitants listed William Spence, his wife and his young daughter Sara(h), but Spence and his wife were shown on the list as "lost."[1] They were also shown on a 1624 list of persons who had died since February 1623.[1][9]
Spence's daughter, Sara Spence, 4 years old, was entrusted to a 20-year old widow, Mrs. Susan Bush, as guardian, at Elizabeth City, Virginia.[1] On August 14, 1624, the General Court ordered John Johnson, who had property on Jamestown Island and at Archer's Hope, to put a roof on the house and repair the fence of Ensign William Spence, Johnson's recently deceased neighbor.[10] After 3 months, the court also ordered Sara Spence's "guardians" to have her property at Archer's Hope surveyed.[1] On May 16, 1625, Sara Spence's guardians, including the Reverend George Keith as well as Susan Bush, were ordered to appear before the General Court.[11] In October 1625, having still not had the property surveyed, the guardians were told by the court that they would be fined if they did not have the land surveyed.[1] Susan Bush placed the Spence property in the hands of a tenant, Thomas Farley, on November 21, 1625.[11] Sara Spence died by April 3, 1627 when the court ordered the Reverend George Keith of Elizabeth City to inventory her estate.[12] Susan Bush also may have died by this date since she was not included in the order pertaining to the Spence property.[11]
Records of the exact date and manner of the deaths of William Spence and his wife have not been found.[note 5]The 2017 Girls' U16 European Volleyball Championship was the inaugural edition of the Girls' U16 European Volleyball Championship, a biennial international volleyball tournament organised by the European Volleyball Confederation (CEV) the girls' under-16 national teams of Europe. The tournament was held in Bulgaria from 21 to 29 July 2017.[1]
At the conclusion of the tournament, the following players were selected as the tournament dream team.[3]Paul Fauconnet (March 13, 1874 in Saint-Denis – 1938) was a French sociologist who is best known as a contributor to the L'Année Sociologique.
Fauconnet aggregated in philosophy in 1892 and earned his doctorate in philosophy in 1895. He also earned a further doctorate in law in 1920, although his interest in the law was purely scholarly and he never practiced as a lawyer.[citation needed] He became a professor at the faculty of letters in 1907 at the University of Toulouse and later chargé de cours (lecturer) at the faculty of letters in 1921 in Paris, obtaining a chair in 1932. His dissertation was entitled La responsabilité: Etude de sociologie (Paris: Alcan, 1920; 2nd edn 1928). It adopts and develops Emile Durkheim's teachings on the nature of criminal justice and punishment.
Durkheim's definition of sociology as "the science of institutions, of their genesis and functioning" was derived from Fauconnet's contribution on sociology, coauthored with Marcel Mauss, to La Grande Encyclopédie in 1901.[1]

This biographical article about a French academic is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
This biography of a French sociologist is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Joseph C. Lewis (born 5 February 1937) is a British businessman and investor who holds a number of assets mainly through his Tavistock Group investment portfolio. He was previously the majority owner of ENIC Group, which is also the majority owner of Tottenham Hotspur Football Club, between 1991 until October 2022.[1] Majority ownership was passed to the Lewis Family Trust in October 2022.[2] The Trust is managed by two independent professional trustees on behalf of its beneficiaries. Lewis is not a beneficiary.[3]
According to the Sunday Times Rich List in 2023, Lewis has a net worth of £5.096 billion, an increase of £811 million from 2022.[4]
Lewis was born to a Jewish[5][6]family above a public house in Roman Road, Bow, London.[7] Lewis left school at 15 to help run his father's West End catering business, Tavistock Banqueting. When he took the reins, he quickly expanded it by selling luxury goods to American tourists, and also owned West End club the Hanover Grand, where he gave Robert Earl his first job.[7] He later sold the business in 1979 to make his initial wealth.[citation needed]
After selling the family business in the late 1970s, Lewis moved into currency trading in the 1980s and 1990s, resulting in his move to the Bahamas where he is now a tax exile.[7] In September 1992, Lewis bet on the pound's crashing out of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism. The event was dubbed Black Wednesday.[8][9][10]
Lewis is the main investor in Tavistock Group, which owns more than 200 companies in 15 countries.
Lewis hosted the Tavistock Cup tournament every March from 2004 through 2013, in Florida, [11][12] raising millions of dollars for charity, and owns three of the six clubs that competed in 2013:[13] Albany, Lake Nona Golf & Country Club and Isleworth Golf & Country Club. Lewis built a golf community in the Bahamas called Albany, which opened in October 2010. Lewis currently resides in Albany. Tiger Woods and Ernie Els are also major shareholders in the luxury resort community located in New Providence. Lewis made a £70 million investment in Bulgarian property development.[14]
Lewis seeded Lake Nona, covering 7,000 acres next to Orlando's international airport, with $100 million in gifts and land which was cultivated into a large-scale community offering research and educational facilities, hospitals for veterans and children, a town center, and a range of workspaces and residential options.[15]
Since Lewis bought a property in Río Negro Province, Argentina, public access to Escondido lake has been under discussion. The Argentine law asserts that every water course is public and of free access.[16] In 2009 Lewis was ordered by the Superior Tribunal de Justicia (STJ) to create and keep access to the lake, with "sufficient signage and to keep it transitable", but the ruling has not been enforced. Lewis' frontman Van Ditmer stated: "We are going to defend the private property with the Winchester in the hands; with blood if needed".[17]
He is currently planning to use a huge protected area, four times the size of the city of Buenos Aires, for another private development, against the wishes of the locals. The property was bought for 69 pesos per hectare, currently about US$4. This low price was secured by using the name of a local 'poblador' on the deed, after which it was transferred to him. It is suggested that the Hidden Lake property is needed to supply water and (hydraulic) energy to this new property, dubbed the private state in Patagonia. In January 2017, new mass protests have started in El Bolson against this project.[17][18]
On 10 September 2007, Lewis paid US$860.4 million in an all-cash purchase of a 7% stake in Bear Stearns.[19] By December 2007 Lewis had raised his stake at the brokerage firm to 9.4%, a total of 11 million shares, for which he paid an average price of $107 apiece.[20] After the purchase of Bear Stearns by JP Morgan for $10 a share, it was estimated that Lewis lost $1.16 billion on his investment.[7][21][22]
Lewis is the largest shareholder in the British public house group Mitchells & Butlers, controlling 26.85% of the issued share capital through his investment vehicle Piedmont, which he built up since 2008.[23][24]
On 25 July 2023, United States attorney for the Southern District of New York Damian Williams announced that Lewis would be charged for multiple counts of insider trading. Lewis is accused of tipping off employees, associates, friends, and romantic interests with non-public information about various entities and lending some of them hundreds of thousands of dollars to trade on the privileged knowledge.[25][26] Lewis surrendered himself to the Manhattan authorities on 26 July 2023,[27] pleading guilty to the charges in January 2024.[28] In April 2024, Lewis was spared jail time after admitting insider trading, sentenced to probation, and fined $5 million.[29][30]
Lewis has been married twice. His first marriage to Esther Browne ended in divorce. They had two children: Vivienne Lewis Silverton and Charles Lewis. Vivienne Lewis Silverton is seen as his "heir"[7] and is on Tavistock's board of directors.[31][32] She is divorced from Toby Silverton, the former chairman of Bristol Cars, once fully owned by Tavistock.[33][34][35] She was engaged to the ex-Liverpool footballer Craig Johnston for 18 years in the 2000s to 2010s.[36] Charles Lewis lives in Argentina,[7] Lewis is now married to Jane Lewis.[7]
Lewis owns the superyacht Aviva.[37]
Lewis' art collection is estimated to be worth $1 billion and includes works by Picasso, Matisse, Lucian Freud and sculptor Henry Moore, 
[10] Lewis bought Francis Bacon's Triptych 1974–1977 in 2008 for £26.3 million,[38] then a record for postwar artwork bought in Europe.[39] In November 2018 Joe Lewis sold his Portrait of an Artist (Pool with Two Figures) by David Hockney in Christie's salesroom for $90.3 million.[40]
Lewis is the owner of several versions of Arturo Di Modica's iconic Charging Bull, including the original, which the artist installed during the middle of the night on 15 December 1989 on Wall Street with no prior permission from the authorities.[41][42][43]
Hamble-le-Rice, commonly known as Hamble, is a village and civil parish in the Borough of Eastleigh in Hampshire, England. It is best known for being a flying training centre during the Second World War and is a popular yachting location.  The village and the River Hamble also featured in the 1980s BBC television series Howards' Way. The village centre, known as The Square, Hamble, has a more traditional English village aesthetic which differentiates it from the small industrial areas (mostly marinas) close to the village.
Hamble-le-Rice is on the south coast of England, south-east of Southampton at the tip of the Hamble peninsula, bounded by Netley, Butlocks Heath, Bursledon, Southampton Water and the River Hamble.
Although previously known as "Hamble", "Hamelea", "Hammel", and "Ham-en-le-Rice", the village's official name is now Hamble-le-Rice.[1] The name "Hamble" is still in common usage. On 27 April 1992, the civil parish was renamed from "Hamble" to "Hamble-le-Rice".[2] To the south of the village, lies the site of an Iron Age promontory hillfort, Hamble Common Camp.
The place-name 'Hamble-le-Rice' is first attested in a French document of 1147, where it appears as Amle. It appears as Hamele in 1270, and as hamele in the Rys in 1404. The village takes its name from the River Hamble; the Rice is the Old English hrīs meaning 'brushwood' or perhaps by extension 'scrubland', and of which the modern form is the word rushes. Thus a modern form of the name might be 'Hamble-in-the-Rushes'.[3] An alternative explanation for the "-le-Rice" ending is that this derives from the Norman French "en le rys", meaning "on the hill".[4][5]
The area is home to the remains of a defensive structure dating to the reign of King Henry VIII.[6] Known as St Andrew's Castle, investigations suggest that it consisted of a rectangular structure fronted by a gun platform with a semi-circular layout.[6] The structure was protected by a moat, with a two gun platforms mounted on the counterscarp.[6] The structure was intact as late as the early 17th century.[7]
Hamble-le-Rice was the home of a major flying school before and during the Second World War for aircraft including the Spitfire, the Lancaster and the Wellington. Over 500 aircraft were built there including the prototype Armstrong Whitworth Ensign and Albemarle, which were first flown in 1938 and 1940. In 1960 the Air Corporations Joint Training Scheme (later, British Airways) fixed wing and helicopter training school was established there, as the Hamble College of Air Training. The south airfield has long since disappeared[8] and the north airfield has been partially developed as housing; the remainder is overgrown and owned by property developers Persimmon.
The aviation industry retains a large interest in Hamble-le-Rice, with the Hamble Aerostructures factory, now a subsidiary of the Spanish company Aernnova, in Kings Avenue.[9]
The following units were here at some point:[10]
Hamble-le-Rice is home to three main marinas offering marine services and goods to the boating industry. In addition, large factories and smaller industrial units off Ensign Way and Hamble Lane are used by CooperVision, Qioptiq Photonics Ltd., BP, Hoyer, GE and others. Some of these businesses are 24-hour operations with large numbers of staff who commute to work. The fuel terminal itself is not visible from the B3397: there was extensive development in the early 2000s when wartime hangars were demolished and high-density housing built next to the road, near the terminal. The Royal Yachting Association (RYA), a non-profit organisation, has its offices in Hamble.
There are two schools in Hamble-Le-Rice:
Hamble-le-Rice is a boating mecca: the nearby River Hamble is often packed with marine traffic and, during the summer, the whole village is crowded with people out enjoying the water, local restaurants and many pubs. The village and its river is one of the many locations that made up the fictional village of Tarrant, in the BBC television series Howards' Way, shown weekly on BBC One in the late 1980s.
Hamble-le-Rice is home to Hamble Common, a variety of estuary wildlife, and other scenic walks.
Hamble fuel terminal was opened by Shell in 1924, whilst BP was still afloat using a converted passenger liner as a fuel tender. In 1930 the two companies formed a joint venture and BP moved to Hamble. This partnership was dissolved in 1976, with the Hamble terminal passing to BP.[12] A 2016 attempt to sell off the terminal was unsuccessful; however Hoyer now handles BPs bulk fuel road transport operation.[13]
A pipeline runs under Southampton Water from the Fawley oil refinery which supplies the BP fuel terminal at Hamble. This fuel terminal was used to supply PLUTO, during the invasion of Europe in World War II.[14] The PLUTO pipeline started at Shanklin on the Isle of Wight and was supplied by ship from Hamble.[14] The jetty at this fuel terminal was extended in 1943/44 so that more ships could be loaded simultaneously.[14]
Fuel is transported from this depot both day and night, in particular early mornings (between 3am and 6am), by 44 tonne road tankers along the B3397, as well as by pipeline to major industry and airports.[citation needed] Markers showing the route of the pipeline can be seen at various points in neighbouring Botley. A now disused branch line ran from the terminal to the Portsmouth to Southampton railway. This is now the scenic Strawberry Trail.
The Hamble Peninsula has one main access road, the B3397, Hamble Lane, which is approximately 3 miles (4.8 km) long and goes straight through the village from the junction with the A27 Portsmouth road. Hamble Lane has had numerous incidences of traffic accidents.[15] and at its intersection with Portsmouth Road an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) exists to monitor nitrogen dioxide traffic pollutants.[16] The B3397 is a very high volume road; a traffic count in March 2003 showed around 16,300 vehicles in a 24-hour period.[15] Daily traffic congestion and slow moving queues are due to the large number of inbound and outbound commuters, on staggered work shifts. Many businesses supply local companies as BP Oil UK, CooperVision and GE Aviation and minor industry and services within the four marinas and industrial areas off Ensign Way.  Road oil and petrol tankers form the bulk of the heavy goods vehicles along this road, numbering a few hundred vehicle movements per day.[citation needed] The village is served by Hamble railway station, about two miles from the centre of the village, which provides hourly services to both Southampton Central and Portsmouth Harbour.[17] It is also linked by a pedestrian ferry to Warsash, and has frequent bus services to Southampton - the '15' provided by Bluestar,[18] via Netley and Woolston. There is also a service, the '49h', to Hedge End, provided by Stagecoach South.[19]
The main sporting activity in the village is sailing with it being the centre of UK offshore sailing and a hub for inshore yacht and keelboat racing. This is partly due to its mainland location and closeness to Cowes on the Isle of Wight. There are three sailing clubs within the village:
In addition Warsash Sailing Club based on the other side of the river also contributes significantly to sailing activities within the village hosting the annual spring series championship and other regattas. Together with offshore racing primarily organized by the Royal Ocean Racing Club and the Junior Offshore Group.
The Royal Yachting Association, the sport's national governing body, has had its headquarters in the village since the early 2000s, when it moved from Eastleigh to a new purpose-built building.
The village has two non-league football clubs; Folland Sports and Hamble Club, both of which play in the Wessex League.
A speedway training track used to operate at Hamble in the early 1950s. There is now a sports college in Hamble to provide recreation and leisure.Second cabinet of Azerbaijan Democratic Republic governed Azerbaijan Democratic Republic (ADR) between June 17, 1918 and December 7, 1918. It was formed after the first cabinet of Azerbaijan Democratic Republic dissolved and was led by Prime Minister of Azerbaijan Fatali Khan Khoyski[1] with the following composition:[2][3]
On October 6, 1918, when the government of Azerbaijan Democratic Republic moved to Baku, it conducted a few administrative reforms. The Ministry of Transportation, Postal Service and Telegraph was split into Ministry of Transportation and Ministry of Postal Service and Telegraph.[10][11] and a new Ministry of Social Security and Religious Affairs was established.[13]
Among notable contributions of the second cabinet are declaration of Azerbaijani language the state language of Azerbaijan Democratic Republic on June 27, 1918; declaration of red banner with white crescent and eight pointed star the first flag of the country on June 24, 1918 and changing it to a tri-color Azerbaijani flag which is the state flag of Azerbaijan Republic today.[2]
Joseph Williams (born 1897, date of death unknown) was a British athlete.[1] He competed in the men's individual cross country event at the 1924 Summer Olympics.[2]
This biographical article relating to British athletics is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.Naruhito

Fumihito

Shigeru Ishiba (LDP)
Second Ishiba Cabinet(LDP–Komeito coalition)


Fukushiro Nukaga
Kōichirō Genba

Masakazu Sekiguchi
Hiroyuki Nagahama
Saburo Tokura
Kazuo Ueda



Visitors to Japan must obtain a visa from one of the Japanese diplomatic missions, unless they come from one of the visa-exempt countries.
Holders of ordinary passports of the following jurisdictions do not need a visa to stay in Japan, for stays up to the duration listed below:[1][2]
90 days
30 days
15 days
E - Nationals of Austria, Germany, Liechtenstein, Mexico, Switzerland and the United Kingdom may apply for an extension of stay (up to a maximum of 6 months) at the Ministry of Justice.
R - Passport must be registered for visa waiver online or at a Japanese diplomatic mission. The registration is valid for three years or until the passport expires, whichever comes first. For Indonesian passport holders, only biometric passports are eligible for registration.
PB - Biometric passport required.
PM - Machine-readable passport required.
1 - For holders of Hong Kong SAR passports or British National (Overseas) passports who have the right of abode in Hong Kong.
2 - For holders of Macao SAR passports.
3 - For holders of Taiwan passports that include a personal identification number.
4 - For British citizens or British Nationals (Overseas).
Visa exemption:
Cancelled:
In June 2024, the Japanese government announced future plans to try and introduce an online travel authorization system called JESTA for visa-exempt visitors, as part of a migration legislative reform by the year 2030.[83][84] The new system will require foreign visitors who are exempt from obtaining short-stay visas to declare information such as the purpose of their stay online before entering Japan. This measure aims to prevent illegal stays and will be implemented by the Immigration Services Agency, drawing inspiration from the United States' Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA).[85]
Holders of diplomatic, official or service passports of the following countries may enter Japan without a visa for a maximum period of 90 days each visit (unless otherwise stated):[80]
Holders of diplomatic and official passports of other countries to whom a visa exemption applies when using an ordinary passport are also exempted from a visa, but are granted the status of residence as temporary visitors under the same conditions and maximum stay as with an ordinary passport. This exemption does not apply to holders of diplomatic and official passports of Taiwan, and to those of the United States traveling for official purposes.[80]
Holders of passports of the following jurisdictions who also hold an APEC Business Travel Card (ABTC) containing the code "JPN" on the reverse may travel to Japan without a visa for business purposes for stays of up to 90 days:[87]
Holders of ordinary passports of and foreign nationals who reside in the following countries and territories can apply and obtain a single entry e-visa individually. The duration of stay for these jurisdictions is up to 90 days (unless otherwise noted). e-Visa holder must arrive in Japan by air.[88][89]
There are regulations for specific e-visa applications.[88] Applications made by Chinese passport holders residing in mainland China must be submitted by an authorized travel agency. The e-visa will be valid for a single entry, with a duration of stay of 15 days. Foreign nationals residing in Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Macao, Mongolia, and South Korea (excluding those under the jurisdiction of the Consulate General of Japan in Jeju) must also submit their applications through an authorized travel agency. Additionally, citizens of Vietnam who are part of a package tour hosted by a designated travel agency can apply for an e-visa.
E-visa holders must use the designated website to display their visa information, as screenshots and PDF files are not considered valid proof of the visa.
Japan historically had special visa policies for nationals of countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States who could not provide their financial guarantees and obtain a visa independently. Instead, they had to apply through an approved travel agency or be invited by a resident or citizen of Japan.[90] However, these requirements were gradually lifted, starting with citizens of Russia on 1 January 2017,[91] followed by Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan on 5 June 2017.[92][93] Armenia's requirements were lifted on 1 September 2017,[94] Azerbaijan's on 1 December 2017,[95] and those for Belarus, Moldova, and Ukraine on 1 January 2018.[96][97]
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan has also maintained special visa policies for nationals of China and the Philippines, requiring them to apply through an accredited travel agent or be invited by a Japanese citizen or resident.[98][99] In 2014, a simplified process was introduced for nationals of the Philippines and Vietnam traveling in groups through registered travel agencies, allowing them to obtain entry visas for tourist visits up to 15 days with fewer required documents.[100] Additionally, nationals of India, the Philippines, and Vietnam can obtain multiple-entry visas if they have previously visited Japan and other G7 countries or demonstrate "sufficient financial capability."[101][102]
Starting in 2015, Chinese tourists traveling on approved cruise ships have been allowed to enter Japan without a visa, provided they embark and disembark the same specified ships.[103] In 2016, Japan reportedly planned to further ease visa requirements for visitors from key markets such as India, China, and Vietnam.[104] This new wave of visa liberalization policies began on 17 October 2016 for Chinese nationals[105] and on 1 January 2018 for Indian nationals.[106]
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Japan suspended visa exemptions for most countries beginning in March 2020 and later extended this suspension to all countries. These exemptions were subsequently restored on 11 October 2022.[107] As of 2024, Japan has further expanded its visa policies by allowing Indian nationals and those residing in India to be eligible for e-Visas.[108]
In 2015 4,768,286 Japanese visas were issued.[109] It is an increase of 66% from 2014 when 2,871,639 visas were issued and the highest number ever recorded.[110]
Most visas were applied for by nationals of the following countries:[111][112][113][114]
Most visitors arriving to Japan were from the following countries of nationality:
In 2015 most visas were issued for group sightseeing (1,957,498) and individual sightseeing (1,126,209). There were 62,052 multiple-entry visas for Okinawa and 10,500 multiple-entry visas for three prefectures in Tōhoku.
The re-entry permit in Japan also exists in the form of a stamp, known as 再入国許可 (Japan Re-entry Permit), which is affixed to a foreign passport or other travel document and serves as a re-entry visa.
Foreign nationals planning to travel outside Japan for more than one year are required to obtain a re-entry permit. Typically, this permit is applied to the passport as a self-adhesive sticker.
For individuals without a valid passport, a booklet-type re-entry permit is issued concurrently with the re-entry permit stamp.
As of the new system introduced in July 2012, the maximum period for a re-entry permit is six years.
From July 9, 2012, foreign nationals legally residing in Japan who plan to leave the country for no more than one year are no longer required to apply for a re-entry permit before their departure. Instead, they can obtain a special re-entry permit at their point of departure.[123] Previously, if a foreign national left Japan without a re-entry permit, their visa or legal residency status could be revoked.
However, the special re-entry permit system has specific exceptions. It does not apply to individuals whose resident status is in the process of revocation, those whose confirmation of departure is suspended, individuals who have received a written detention order, those who are in the process of applying for refugee status and staying with the resident status of "Designated Activities," or individuals specified by Japan's Ministry of Justice as threats to national interests or public order. Additionally, this permit is deemed necessary for the fair control of entries and departures.
The special re-entry permit is not available for holders of booklet-type re-entry permits. These individuals must have a stamp-type re-entry permit in their booklets since the validity of the booklet re-entry permit is limited to the stamp's valid date.
As a result of sanctions against North Korea, entry and transit is refused to North Korea nationals, even if not leaving the aircraft and proceeding by the same flight[1][124][125]
1 British Overseas Territories. 
2 These countries span the conventional boundary between Europe and Asia. 
3 Partially recognized. 
4 Unincorporated territory of the United States. 
5 Part of the Kingdom of Denmark.
6 Egypt spans the boundary between Africa and Asia.
1 British Overseas Territories.
2 Azerbaijan, Georgia, Turkey, Kazakhstan, Russia and the partially recognised republics of Abkhazia and South Ossetia each span the conventional boundary between Europe and Asia.
3 Cyprus, Armenia, and the partially recognised republic of Northern Cyprus are entirely in Western Asia but have socio-political connections with Europe.
4 Egypt spans the boundary between Africa and Asia.
5 Partially recognized.
The following is an episode list for the Australian television show Mako: Island of Secrets (known internationally as Mako Mermaids), which first aired on Network Ten in Australia, later moving to channel Eleven. Series one premiered in Australia on 26 July 2013. The first half of the series was released simultaneously on Netflix, with the second half released on 15 September 2013. Series two premiered its first half on Netflix on 13 February 2015 and the second half on 29 May 2015. Series 3 began airing on Eleven 15 May 2016 and was released internationally on Netflix on 27 May 2016.[1]
Two other members of the Mako mermaid pod set out to take away Zac's merman powers so that the pod may return home, but they don't realise his connection to Mako Island may not be accidental. The ruins of an ancient merman temple are discovered by Zac; while only he sees the ruins at first, they can be seen by all during a full moon. Another merman arrives intent on taking Mako Island's power for himself.[9][10]
Series two introduces three new characters: mermaids Ondina and Mimmi, played by Isabel Durant and Allie Bertram, and merman Erik, played by Alex Cubis.[11] Series two was announced in February 2013, with production scheduled for the second half of 2013.[12] Series two features 26 half-hour episodes.[9] The first half of the series premiered on 13 February 2015 on Netflix in North America, the United Kingdom, and other territories.[13] The second half of the series premiered on 29 May 2015.[14]
When a Chinese mermaid named Weilan accidentally releases a water dragon from an ancient relic, she flees to Mako Island with the creature in pursuit. Mermaids Ondina and Mimmi must defend Mako Island and the Gold Coast from destruction.[2] Series three debuted in Australia on 15 May 2016 on Eleven and was released on Netflix on 27 May 2016.[1] It features 16 half-hour episodes.[2]
Cariba Heine guest stars in the final two episodes, reprising her role from H2O: Just Add Water as Rikki Chadwick.Eugénie Joubert (11 February 1876 – 2 July 1904) was a French Roman Catholic professed religious from the Sisters of the Holy Family of the Sacred Heart.[1] Joubert lived a short life - she died due to tuberculosis but her life was noted for her staunch devotion to the Mother of God and her commitment to her spiritual cultivation was well known and admired.[2]
The cause for sainthood started under Pope Pius XI on 1 June 1938 - she was titled as a Servant of God - and the confirmation of her life of heroic virtue allowed for Pope John Paul II to name her as Venerable on 9 June 1983; that same pope beatified her on 20 November 1994.
Eugénie Joubert was born in 1876 to Pierre Joubert and Antonia Celle as the fourth of eight children in France.
Joubert and her elder sister were placed in a boarding school that the Ursulines managed at Ministrel - both grew fond of their time there and came to like their experiences.[1] She made her First Communion in 1888. On 6 October 1895 she joined a religious order at Aubervilliers (near Paris) and began as a postulant and then commenced her period of the novitiate; her mother bid her farewell and said: "Don't look back but become a saint!".[2] On 13 August 1896 she received the habit from the order's founder Jesuit Louis-Etienne Rabussier and made her profession to him on 8 September 1897; he followed the Spiritual Exercises twice in her novitiate.[1] She was in Rome from April 1903 until May 1904 and then moved to Belgium.
Joubert began to suffer from tuberculosis since 1902 and died from it in Belgium in 1904. She had once collapsed from exhaustion after suffering a haemorrhage. Her breathing grew much more labored in her final hours and she was presented with an image of the Child Jesus to which she uttered her final words: "Jesus ... Jesus ... Jesus".[1]
The beatification process opened in an informative process spanning from 1919 to 1923 and her writings received formal approval on 28 April 1936; the formal introduction of the cause came under Pope Pius XI on 1 June 1938 and she was titled as a Servant of God. The Congregation for Rites validated the informative process on 18 April 1958 and the consultants and members of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints approved the cause on 1 December 1982; the C.C.S. alone later approved it on 12 April 1983. Pope John Paul II confirmed her heroic virtue and named her as Venerable on 9 June 1983.
The miracle for beatification was investigated and then ratified on 30 October 1987 at which point a medical board approved it on 8 October 1992; theologians followed on 11 December 1992 as did the C.C.S. on 16 February 1993. John Paul II approved it and then beatified Joubert on 20 November 1994.
The current postulator for the cause is Fr. Charles Cauty Ancel.
This biographical article about a French religious figure is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
This Catholic Church–related biographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.Ohga (오가, 五加) or Five Ministers is a political structure of Gojoseon and Buyeo, according to Joseon Sanggosa. Literally, Ohga means five gas because Oh means five in Korean.[1]
Ohga were composed of Dotga, Gaeda, Soga, Malga and Shinga. Dotga is a minister of the eastern area, Gaega was a minister of the western area, Soga was a minister of southern area, Malga was a minister of the northern area, and Shinga was the supreme minister among the Five Ministers. Shinga had responsibility for the central area. These names of Ohga resembled the name of animals. Dot in Dotga means  pig, Gae in Gaeda means dog, so in Soga means cow, mal in Malga means horse. Shin in Shinga does not mean any animal, and it always represents Heaven because the Koreans consider themselves as the descendants of Heaven.
This Korea-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it."Scream Again" is the season premiere and the fourteenth episode of the horror black comedy series Scream Queens, which premiered on Fox on September 20, 2016. It was directed by Brad Falchuk and written by Falchuk and his co-creators, Ryan Murphy and Ian Brennan. The episode was watched by 2.17 million viewers and received mixed to positive reviews from critics.
The episode revolves around Cathy Munsch's recent acquisition, the C.U.R.E. Hospital, which she bought in order to cure the incurable and to reorganize the U.S. health system, while flashbacks shows a connection with the hospital from 1985. Zayday Williams and the Chanels are cast as medical students by Cathy, while a new serial killer surfaces.
In 1985, a pregnant woman interrupts a Halloween party in need of help for her husband and is directed to Dr. Mike, who tells her that he'll help her husband; then, Dr. Mike injects the woman's husband with an anesthetic and dumps the body in a swamp outside the hospital instead while she waits.
In 2016, Cathy Munsch purchases a hospital and hires Dr. Brock Holt and Dr. Cassidy Cascade, as well as Zayday Williams, now a first year medical student. Cathy also hires the Chanels who had been released from the asylum and have spent nearly two years living poor and pathetic lives, after Hester confesses about the murders and are working in the medical industry. The hospital's first patient is Catherine Hobart who is diagnosed with werewolf syndrome. Zayday suggests a lobotomy, but Brock and Chanel suggest changing her diet, which causes her to completely lose her hair. Catherine and #5 each take a bath, but accidentally trap themselves in the tubs. A new serial killer, known as the "Green Meanie", appears and decapitates Catherine with a machete before turning toward #5.
"Scream Again" was directed by series' co-creator Brad Falchuk and written by Falchuk alongside also co-creators Ryan Murphy and Ian Brennan. On January 15, 2016, Fox renewed the series for a second season, to be set in a hospital.[1][2][3] In June 2016, John Stamos, Taylor Lautner and James Earl joined the cast of the series, portraying doctors and an employee at the hospital, respectively.[4][5][6][7][8] In July, Jerry O'Connell and Laura Bell Bundy were announced to have recurring roles as Dr. Mike and Nurse Thomas, respectively.[9] In September 2016, Kirstie Alley was cast in the series, playing Ingrid Hoffel.[10]
"Scream Again" premiered in the U.S. on September 20, 2016, on Fox, to a viewership of 2.17 million viewers, and received a 1.0 rating in the 18–49 demographic, according to Nielsen Media Research.[11]
Terri Schwartz of IGN wrote a mixed review for the episode, stating: "Scream Queens goes off the deep end with no life preserver in sight for Season 2, losing any tenuous grips on reality for the sake of turning its central characters into even bigger caricatures than they were in Season 1. While some of the stalwarts work -- particularly Curtis' Munsch and Roberts' Chanel #1 -- the show still has a way to go before it fully finds its voice."[12] TVFanatic writer Caralynn Lippo affirmed "[the episode] was a fun start to the new season. It managed to successfully reintroduce all of our favorite characters after a two year time jump, while still laying the groundwork for what seems like a fun new setting and killer mystery."[13]
The 20-point agreement, or the 20-point memorandum, is a list of 20 points drawn up by North Borneo, proposing terms for its incorporation into the new federation as the State of Sabah, during negotiations prior to the formation of Malaysia. In the Malaysia Bill of the Malaysia Agreement some of the twenty points were incorporated, to varying degrees, into what became the Constitution of Malaysia; others were merely accepted orally, thus not gaining legal status. The 20-point agreement often serves as a focal point amongst those who argue that Sabah's rights within the Federation have been eroded over time.[1]
Under an agreement signed between Great Britain and the Federation of Malaya the issue of self-determination with respect to the peoples of North Borneo and Sarawak formed a challenge to the formation of the Federation of Malaysia. A Joint Statement issued by the British and Malayan Federal Governments on 23 November 1961 announced that before coming to any final decision it was necessary to ascertain the views of the peoples of North Borneo and Sarawak. It was decided to set up a commission to carry out that task and to make recommendations.
The British Government, working with the Federation of Malaya Government, appointed a Commission of Enquiry for North Borneo and Sarawak in January 1962 to determine if the people supported the proposal to create a Federation of Malaysia. The five-man team, which comprised two Malayans and three British representatives, was headed by Lord Cobbold.[2] An inter-governmental committee (The Lansdowne Committee) was appointed to work out the final details of the Malaysia Agreement. Lord Lansdowne served for Britain and Tun Abdul Razak, Deputy Prime Minister of the Federation of Malaya served for Malaya.[3]
The 20 points were written with a view to safeguarding the interests, rights, and autonomy of the people of North Borneo upon the formation of the federation of Malaysia. A similar proposal, with certain differences in content, was made by Sarawak, and is commonly referred to as the 18-point agreement.
Attention is often drawn to these memoranda by those who believe that their principles were not subsequently adhered to after federation. There have been numerous calls for the 20-point memorandum to be reviewed so as to take into account social, economic, and political changes over time.[4]
Article 2 of the Constitution of Malaysia states that the Parliament of Malaysia has the right to change the state boundaries or to admit any new states into the federation. However, there is no provision about the secession of states from the federation.[11] However, former International Islamic University Malaysia (PIHE) academic, Abdul Aziz Bari, said that Article 2 of the Constitution also implies that the Malaysian Parliament has the final say on the secession of a state from the federation, as it did to Singapore in 1965.[12] Besides, any suggestions about secession of Sabah and Sarawak from Malaysia would be punishable under Sedition Act.[13]
Jeniri Amir from Universiti Malaysia Sarawak (UNIMAS) stated that Sarawak and Sabah has no right to secede from the federation according to Point 7.[14] However, a separatist group led by Doris Jones said that the meaning of the word "should" as in "There should be no right to secede from the Federation" is only a recommendation as opposed to "shall" which implies a command.[15]
In the Malaysia Agreement, the meaning of the term "Governor" included the title of the Head of State of Sabah, which was "Yang di-Pertua Negara".[16] This term was incorporated into the Constitution of Malaysia from 1963 to 1976. However, the Sarawak head of state was named "Yang di-Pertua Negeri" from 1963.[17]
On 27 August 1976, under Article 160 of the Constitution of Malaysia, the term "Governor" was abolished and replaced with "Yang di-Pertua Negeri".[18] This effectively ended the title of "Yang di-Pertua Negara" of Sabah. The Malay translation of the term "State" of Sabah and Sarawak has been "Negeri" (Federated states) instead of "Negara" (Nation) since 1963.[19]
Nevertherless, some groups argue that Sabah and Sarawak should be called "Negara" (Nation), and the head of state called "Yang di-Pertua Negara", on the basis that Sarawak achieved independence on 22 July 1963 and Sabah achieved independence on 31 August 1963 before forming Malaysia together with Federation of Malaya on 16 September 1963. They believe that the head of state of Sabah being known as "Yang di-Pertua Negara" between 1963 and 1976 supports this view.[20][21][22][23]
Vampires is a supplement published by Pacesetter Ltd in 1985 for the horror role-playing game Chill.
Vampires is a sourcebook featuring information about ten different vampires.[1] These can be used as major antagonists in a Chill campaign.
Each vampire is given a biography, a description of its particular powers and weaknesses, and role-playing game statistics.[2]
The book includes a short sample adventure, "Vengeance of Dracula", set some years after Bram Stoker's novel, when Dracula returns to England to exact his revenge.[2]
The horror role-playing game Chill was published by Pacesetter in 1984. The following year, Pacesetter published a number of supplements, including Vampires, a 96-page softcover book designed by Gali Sanchez and Michael Williams, with interior artwork by Stephen Sullivan and cover art by Susan Collins.
After Pacesetter went out of business, Mayfair Games acquired the rights to Chill and published a second edition in 1990. Mayfair also revised and expanded Vampires, publishing a 128-page second edition again designed by Sanchez and Williams, with interior artwork by Mark Beachum, Mari Paz Cabardo, Terry Pavlet, and Ike Scott, and cover art by Joe DeVelasco.[2]
Daniel Huber reviewed Vampires in White Wolf #29 (Oct./Nov., 1991), rating it a 4 out of 5 and stated that "For those who love Bram Stoker's (traditional) vampires, Dracula will be interesting to play. I think the other ten vampires will be very useful to the Chillmaster to create the proper atmosphere of horror. Vampires makes a good supplement for Chill and fascinating reading for those who enjoy vampire tales."[3]
In Issue 186 of Dragon (October 1992), Rick Swan called this "the best of the Chill sourcebooks — in fact, one of the best horror sourcebooks, period." Swan described the writing style of Gali Sanchez and Michael Williams as "a controlled, eloquent style that captures both the sensuality and otherworldliness of the undead." However, Swan felt the included scenario "ends the book with more of a fizzle than a bang. After a promising beginning, the adventure degenerates into a series of ho-hum scares and an unsatisfying ending." Swan concluded "I would've liked stronger scenarios and a few more adventure hooks, but all in all, the fastidious research, evocative writing, and enthusiasm for the material makes for a winning combination."[4]Food Rite (also Foodrite, Food Rite Grocery, and Food Rite Group) is an American supermarket chain operating nine stores in West Tennessee. The chain is owned by Joey Hayes[1] and supplied by Associated Wholesale Grocers[2][3] out of Southaven, Mississippi. The stores sell both groceries and various household products.
Locations in Tennessee include:
There are also other stores signed "Food Rite" in the area that are under separate management.
They may or may not have at one time been part of the same company:
In addition, there are various other stores located throughout the country with the same name.Bert Kerr "Hank" Waits II was an American mathematician and professor at The Ohio State University where he taught in the Mathematics Department from 1961 to 1991.[1] He was also a consultant to Texas Instruments, Education Technology Division, and a mathematics textbook author.
In 1986 Bert Waits and Franklin Demana founded the international network Teachers Teaching with Technology (T³),[2] followed by the annual International Conference on Technology in Collegiate Mathematics (ICTCM), and in 1993 the European biennial International Conference on Technology in Mathematics Teaching (ICTMT) [3]
His mantra was ’’The power of visualization’’ [4] which he shared in over 200 invitation lectures worldwide from 1988 to 2006.Climbing hydrangea is a common name for several species in the genus Hydrangea, and also of related species in other genera:The Centrair 201 Marianne is a training glider seating two in tandem, designed and built in France in the 1980s. It was intended to replace the numerous but ageing gliders equipping French gliding clubs; when Centrair ceased trading in 1988 some eighty Mariannes had been sold, fewer than hoped.
French government support for gliding was generous immediately after World War II but was fading by the 1980s.  The Fédération Français de Vol à Voile (FFVV), who administered the French gliding movement, had to become self-financing and were central players in an effort to retain a viable gliding manufacturing base in France. By that time there was a need for a new two seat training glider to replace the existing club fleet of some 270 Wassmer Bijaves, so a competition was launched and won by Centrair.  The Marianne design gained financial support from the Ministry of Transport and design support from Dassault Aviation and the Office Nationale d'Etude de Recherche Aerospatiale (ONERA).[1]
The Marianne has a shoulder wing mounted with 3° of dihedral.  It has a single spar formed from glassfibre rovings, around which the laminar flow wing profile and ailerons are made from polyvinyl chloride (PVC) foam and glass-reinforced plastic (GRP) sandwich.  There are no flaps; double plate aluminium airbrakes extend only above the upper wing surface.[2]
The fuselage is a monocoque pod and boom structure also built with composite sandwich layers, but with carbon fibre added. Its T-tail is constructed from GRP; the tailplane carries an elevator.  There is no provision for water ballast.  The two tandem seats have a common upper line but two single piece canopies, the forward one forward hinged and the rear opening to starboard. The undercarriage is fixed, with a main monowheel, fitted with a hydraulic brake, placed at the pod-boom transition within a prominent fairing and assisted by a smaller nosewheel.[2]
The Marianne made its first flight on 19 September 1985 and received certification on 29 January 1987.[2]
There were plans for later versions: an advanced trainer with flaps and retractable undercarriage; a higher performance Marianne with longer span (20.9 m; 68 ft 7 in); and a motorized, self launching version.[1][2] None of these seem to have been built before Centrair ceased trading after producing eighty Mariannes.[1]
The Marianne got mixed reviews at club level: its performance was good, perhaps somewhere between that of two of its best contemporaries, the Grob Twin Astir and the Schempp-Hirth Janus, the airbrakes worked well and its build quality and viceless handling were also praised.  Criticism focussed on the rear seat, which was said to be uncomfortable with restricted views, and the difficult rigging and de-rigging procedures.[1]
Sixty-five Mariannes appeared on the civil aircraft registers of mainland Europe in 2010.[3] The September 2012 UK register lists two more.[4] Another is in Australia in 2018, at Southern tableland Gliding Club.[1][5][6]
Data from Jane's All the World's Aircraft 1987/88,[2] Jane's All the World's Aircraft 1988–89[7]
General characteristics
Performance
Related lists
Angus Reid (born September 23, 1976) is a former offensive lineman who played in the Canadian Football League. Reid went to Simon Fraser University and played for the Simon Fraser Clan. He began his career with the Montreal Alouettes but was traded, along with a 5th round draft pick, to BC for Adriano Belli. In 2004, Reid was selected to the West Division All-Star Team for the first time in his career. He was also named CFL lineman of the week for week #7. In 2005, Reid started all 18 games including the West Division Final against the Edmonton Eskimos.
Reid missed three years of college football at Simon Fraser because of gastrointestinal problems linked to Crohn's disease but he played every CFL game from the 2002 to 2008 CFL seasons including the 92nd and 94th Grey Cups.[1][2]
In 1999 he played for the German team Hamburg Blue Devils.[3]
He announced his retirement from football on March 7, 2014.[4]

This biographical article relating to a Canadian football offensive lineman is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.Marta Morazzoni (born 1950) is an Italian educator and writer.[1]
She was born at Gallarate in Lombardy and studied philosophy at the University of Milan. She taught high school literature at Gallarate. She published La Ragazza col turbante (The Girl with the Turban), a group of stories, in 1986; it was translated into nine languages.[1] Her 1988 novel L'invenzione della verità (The invention of truth) was a finalist for the Premio Campiello. The novel Il caso Courrier published in 1997 was awarded the Premio Campiello and, in 2001, the Independent Foreign Fiction Prize.[2]

This biographical article about an Italian writer or poet is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Nitesh Pandey (17 January 1972 – 23 May 2023) was an Indian film and television actor.[1][2]
Pandey began doing theatre in 1990. In 1995, he got his first acting opportunity in a show called Tejas in which he played a detective, however the show was never aired, due to the loss of broadcaster BITV's satellite.[3][4] Pandey worked in serials such as Manzilein Apani Apani, Astitva...Ek Prem Kahani, Saaya, Justajoo, and Durgesh Nandini, and in films including Om Shanti Om and Khosla Ka Ghosla. He also ran an independent production house called Dream Castle Productions, which produces radio shows. He did theatre shows such as Aastha and Misal Pav with Sudha Chandran.[4] His performance was noticed in Khosla Ka Ghosla.[citation needed]
Pandey married Ashwini Kalsekar in 1998 and they divorced in 2002. He later married TV actress Arpita Pandey.[4][5][6] The couple had a son Aarav.
Pandey died from a heart attack at a hotel in Igatpuri, Nashik, Maharashtra, on 23 May 2023, at the age of 51.[7]

This article about an Indian actor is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.The 2017–18 season is the club's third season in the Scottish Championship. St Mirren will also compete in the Challenge Cup, the League Cup and the Scottish Cup.
9 May – defender Adam Eckersley signed a two-year contract extension with the club, tying him to the club until the summer of 2019. It was also confirmed that Ben Gordon, Andy Webster and Jordan Stewart would leave the club when their contracts expire in the summer.[1]
11 May – young defender Jack Baird signed a one-year contract extension with the club.[2]
15 May – veteran goalkeeper Jamie Langfield signed a one-year contract extension with the club. It is anticipated that Langfield will fulfil a coaching role, rather than be involved in a playing capacity.[3]
18 May – highly rated midfielder Stevie Mallan signed a two-year contract with EFL Championship side Barnsley for an undisclosed fee.[4]
19 May – midfielder Josh Todd signed a one-year contract extension with the club after signing in January.[5]
22 May – defender Gary MacKenzie became the fifth player to sign a contract extension this summer, signing up for another season with the club. Also on this day, forward Cammy Smith left Aberdeen and joined Saints on a two-year deal, after a successful loan spell last season.[6]
23 May – midfielder Kyle Hutton was released by the club, when his contract was terminated by mutual agreement.[7]
24 May – young midfielder Kyle Magennis signed a new deal with the club, committing him to the summer of 2020.[8]
Also on this day, Saints signed goalkeeper Ross M. Stewart from Albion Rovers and midfielder Jordan Kirkpatrick from Alloa Athletic. Both players have penned two-year deals with the club.[9]
26 May – Jack Ross recruited two more players when forward Ross C. Stewart signed a two-year contract from Albion Rovers, and defender Gregor Buchanan signed from Dumbarton one a one-year deal.[9]
2 June – Saints were paired along with Partick Thistle, Airdrieonians, Stranraer and Livingston in the League Cup draw. Fixtures will commence from 15–19 July.[10]
7 June – goalkeeper Craig Samson rejoined Saints on a two-year deal after leaving Motherwell, tying him to the club until June 2019.[11]
12 June – after impressing in his short time at the club, defender Stelios Demetriou signed a one-year contract extension in June 2017.[12]
13 June – striker Gavin Reilly signed a one-year deal after leaving Heart of Midlothian.[13]
15 June – defender Gary Irvine signed a one-year contract extension.[14]
16 June – young midfielder Nathan Flanagan signed a one-year contract with the club, after graduating from the youth setup.[15]
27 June – striker Dale Hilson signed a six-month deal with the club, after leaving Queen of the South.[16]
29 June – youngster Lewis McLear left the club by mutual agreement. The midfielder had been at the club for three years, but failed to breakthrough to the first team.[17]
13 July – midfielder Ian McShane signed a two-year deal with Saints, after leaving Ross County.[18]
1 August – defender Harry Davis joined the club, after being released by Crewe Alexandra. Davis was on loan at Saints last year, and joins on a one-year deal with the option of a further year.[19]
3 August – Rocco Quinn left the club by mutual agreement, after just one year of his two-year deal.[20]
4 August – Jack Ross and assistant, James Fowler, signed contract extensions with the club – ensuring they remain with the club until at least 2020.[21]
10 August – striker Darryl Duffy signed a one-year deal with Saints, having recently played in India.[22]
14 August – Saints signed defender Liam Smith on a one-year loan from Hearts.[23]
22 September – Saints signed Celtic defender Jamie McCart on an emergency loan, following injuries and suspensions. McCart signed until 23 December 2017.[24]
12 December – striker Danny Mullen signed on an emergency loan from fellow Scottish Championship challengers, Livingston. It was reported than Mullen will sign on a permanent contract in January 2018, when his loan period expires.[25]
21 December – forward Ross C. Stewart moved on loan to Scottish League One side Alloa Athletic, until the end of the season.[26]
28 December – defender Jamie McCart ended his loan period, and returned to Celtic.[27]
31 December – forward Dale Hilson was released after his short-term contract expired. He made five appearances for the club, scoring one goal.[28]
5 January – Lewis Morgan signed a 4+1⁄2-year contract with Celtic and was immediately loaned back to Saints until the end of the season. The fee was undisclosed, but is thought to have been around £300,000.[29]
10 January – striker Darryl Duffy signed on loan for Scottish League One side Airdrieonians until the end of the season.[30]
11 January – defender Gregor Buchanan left the club by mutual consent. He made 16 appearances, and scored two goal since joining at the start of the season.[31] He signed for Livingston later in the day.
Also on this day, it was confirmed that Danny Mullen had signed a 2+1⁄2-year permanent deal with Saints, tying him to the club until the summer of 2020.[32]
12 January – manager Jack Ross received the Scottish Championship December Manager of the Month award.[33]
15 January – Saints added to the squad when experienced midfielder Ryan Flynn signed, after being recently released by Oldham Athletic. The 29-year-old joins on a two-and-a-half-year deal.[34]
16 January – 19-year-old midfielder Mark Hill signed on loan from Celtic until the end of the season.[35]
19 January – midfielder Jordan Kirkpatrick returned to Alloa Athletic on loan until the end of the season.[36]
31 January – winger Myles Hippolyte signed on an 18-month contract after being released by Falkirk.[37]
Also on this day, youngster Cameron MacPherson signed on loan for Stranraer until the end of the season.[38]
1 February – defender Jack Baird signed a one-year extension to his current contract, keeping his at Saints until the summer of 2019.[39]
6 February – manager Jack Ross received the Scottish Championship January Manager of the Month award, his second such award in a row. Saints captain Stephen McGinn also won the Player of the Month award.[40]
20 February – veteran Italian midfielder Massimo Donati signed a short-term contract until the end of the season. Donati left Premiership side Hamilton Academical last month.[41]
20 March – Josh Todd signed for Queen of the South on an emergency loan deal until the end of the season.[42]
5 April – Jack Ross received the Scottish Championship March Manager of the Month award, making it a hat-trick of awards for the season.[43]
14 April – Saints won the Scottish Championship after a goalless draw at home to Livingston. It ended the club's three-year exile from the Scottish Premiership, after being relegated in 2015.[44]
20 April – club captain, Stephen McGinn, penned a new two-year contract with the club after leading Saints to the Scottish Premiership.[45]
29 April – Jack Ross was named PFA Manager of the Year, and Lewis Morgan was named Scottish Championship Player of the Year.[46]
Win
  Draw
  Loss
  Postponed
Includes all competitive matches.
The ULBI Wild Thing is a German ultralight aircraft, designed by R. Kurtz and produced by Ultraleicht Bau International (ULBI), of Hassfurt. The aircraft was supplied as a kit for amateur construction or as a complete ready-to-fly-aircraft.[1][2][3]
In the 1990s the aircraft was marketed by Air-Max GmbH of Nuremberg, Germany.[3]
The aircraft was introduced in 1996 and production ended when ULBI went out of business in 2014.[1][2][4]
The aircraft was designed specifically for touring in Africa. It was intended to comply with the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale microlight rules. It features a strut-braced high wing, a two-seats-in-side-by-side configuration enclosed cockpit with doors for access, fixed tricycle landing gear or conventional landing gear and a single engine in tractor configuration.[1][2][3]
The aircraft is made from sheet aluminum. Its 9.15 m (30.0 ft) span wing has an area of 13.88 m2 (149.4 sq ft) and flaps. Standard engines available are the 100 hp (75 kW) Rotax 912ULS, 85 hp (63 kW) Jabiru 2200 and the 120 hp (89 kW) Jabiru 3300 four-stroke powerplants.[1][2] The 100 hp (75 kW) Hirth F-30, 75 to 80 hp (56 to 60 kW) Limbach L2000 and the  180 hp (134 kW) Lycoming O-360 have also been fitted.[3]
Data from Bayerl and Tacke[1][2]
General characteristics
PerformanceAzteca México was an American subscription channel that carried a combined schedule of TV Azteca's three domestic Mexican networks at the time (Azteca 7, Azteca Trece and adn40) in the United States. The network was exclusive to DirecTV viewers, carried on its channel 442 next to the default national feed of Azteca América after June 2, 2008.[1] Its scheduling was often live with the domestic Mexican networks it shared programming with, compared to Azteca América's different scheduling to compete against its American competitors. It also carried no sports programming outside of highlight and sports talk shows.
Azteca removed the channel on October 4, 2016, upon Estrella TV acquiring carriage on the service and assuming channel 442 in its place.[2] The oncoming end of a competitor MundoMax and Azteca América finding new steam as it reacquired former affiliates from that network (and recruited new stations) likely also played a role in the discontinuation of Azteca México.McBay is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:A surfboard shaper is someone who designs and builds surfboards. The process of surfboard shaping has evolved over the years, and the shaper often tailors his or her work to meet the requirements of a client or a certain wave. Surfboard shapers can be independent or work in collaboration with mass-production companies.
While originally made from wood, most modern surfboards are now constructed from pre-formed polyurethane or Styrofoam EPS blanks. The surfboard is then shaped using an array of tools, including but not limited to the following: surforms, rasps, grinders, sanders, and planes. After the form of the surfboard is sculpted from the blank, the shaper can lay fiberglass or carbon fiber sheets over the top and bottom of the surfboard, and laminate each sheet with a thermosetting substance, such as epoxy or polyester resin.[1]
There exists very little evidence that pinpoints the exact location of the first surfboard shaper; however, historical analysis suggests that surfboarding itself first originated in Hawaii. The Hawaiian islanders most likely utilized only three species of tree as the base for their surfboards: the wiliwili (Erythrina monosperma), ulu (Artocarpus incisa), and koa (Acacia koa). After the chosen tree was cut, Hawaiian shapers used sea coral and oahi stones for light reduction; subsequently, the root of the ti plant and the bark of the kukui plant were used for the final burnish of the surfboard.  Surfboard shaping was regarded by the Hawaiian islanders as a ceremonial rite; Hawaiian islanders often offered fish to surfriding trees as offerings.[2]
Three foundational templates for surfboard shaping were utilized by the Hawaiian islanders: the alaia, the paipo, and the olo. The type of surfboard shape was actually indicative of Hawaiian social structure; the alaia and paipo boards were used by the commoners, while the olo boards were reserved for the royal class.[3] However, the primary distinction between each ancient Hawaiian surfboard shape is their length and weight; paipo boards ranged from 3–6 feet long,[4] alaia boards ranged from 7 to 12 feet long,[5] and olo boards measured up to 20 feet long.[6]
The next technological change in the surfboard shaping industry came with the introduction of the “Hollow Board” by Hawaiian resident Tom Blake. In 1926, Blake acquired an ancient olo surfboard from Honolulu's Bishop Museum; the board was originally 16 feet long and weighed 150 pounds. In an effort to replicate the structure of the olo board, Blake drilled holes in a redwood blank and sealed the top of with wood with sheets of veneer, effectively creating the first “hollow” surfboard.[2] Blake's innovative design drastically reduced the weight of the surfboard, and by 1930, the “Hollow Board” became the first mass-produced surfboard in the world.[7]
The advent of the 1930s marks the next technological revolutions in the history of the surfboard shaper. Balsa wood began to emerge as the most versatile base for the modernizing shaper; the balsa wood drastically reduced the weight of the surfboard, and allowed for surfers to move in the water with more speed and agility.[2]
The addition of balsa wood subsequently led to the surfboard shaper's move towards the “Hot Curl Design.” By shaving off parts of the tail and shaping the sides of the board, surfboard shapers were able to produce surfboards that allowed surfers to pull into the “curl” of a wave.[8]
The beginning of the 1940s marked the introduction of fiberglass resin, which allowed shapers to construct surfboards that were strong, light, and waterproof.[7] Furthermore, surfboard shapers began to utilize alternate base materials, including both plastic and polyurethane foam. The addition of the new materials as well as fiberglass gave surfboard shapers more freedom and allowed them to incorporate both fins and rocker design in the construction of surfboards.[2]
In the 1960s, the design of surfboard began to significantly shrink in size. In the era known as the "Shortboard Revolution", surfboard shapers, most notably George Greenough, Bob McTavish, and Simon Anderson reduced the length of the surfboard, creating a higher level of maneuverability. This innovation serves as the foundation for contemporary performance surfing.[7]
Currently, many surfboard shapers design surfboards using computer programs and hot-wire cutting machines that expedite the design process, especially in relation to mass-production. These computer programs allow the shaper to create an exacting and reproducible design that can be easily fine-tuned and adjusted.[9]
Many professional shapers outsource the highly specialized task of lamination to “glassers”; “glassers” laminate fiberglass to the foam core of the surfboard using thermosetting resins, such as polyester or epoxy. Fins and assorted plugs are usually after lamination, and the final product is sanded and glossed down with buffing compounds and glossing resins.[10]
The surfboard shaper often designs their surfboards based on the specifications of their client; the shaper will adjust the dimensions and concave of the board to tailor to different styles of surfing and various types of waves.
Surfboard shaping is not done so easily; it takes patience and determination to properly craft a surfboard. Starting from the room where it's crafted and finishing with its glassing process. Surfboard shapers use a shaping room to begin their craft. Usually the rooms are at least 5 m × 2 m (16 ft × 8 ft) and consist of fluorescent lights. The standings where the blanks are shaped are nailed to the floor with lighting aligned near them. Lighting is a crucial part of the crafting process to make sure the board is perfectly constructed with the right dimensions. There are four key steps in building and shaping a surfboard: Shaping the template, preparing the fin setup and rails, rounding rails, and smoothing the outline.
Start by adjusting the template paper over the blank, then cut the blank with a handsaw on both sides. Sand the rails until the edges are square. Then measure the size and thickness of the blank this will give you the measurements of foam needed. Remove the extra foam by passing it perpendicular to the stringer from tail to nose. Then repeat the process on the opposite side. Shape the tail and rocker by passing the planer over the areas.
Mark the front fins positions on both sides then mark the back fins. Carefully remove all mistakes on the blank with sandpaper. Finally, cut the rail bevel from nose to fins to give a rounded-edge shape to the board.
Start by turning the rails with the planer (nose to tail), then create a 45-degree angle from turning point on the deck to the top. Make sure the symmetry is correct on the other rail. Then with a sanding block round the rails to reduce sharp edges.
Sand the deck until it blends with the rails. Then round and smooth the rails on both side. Then confirm the overall symmetry of the board. Measure and take note of the dimensions of the board. Finally, sign the surfboard and send it off to glassing.
Hobart Alter, also known as “Hobie", was a prominent surfboard shaper from Dana Point, California who is famously known for his experimentation with polyurethane foam as a base material for surfboards.  In 1950, Hobie first began shaping balsa-wood surfboards in his family's Laguna Beach garage; however, it wasn't until a few years later that he opened the first Southern California surf shop in Dana Point.  Hobie was a pioneer in 20th century surfboard construction and design; his most famous legacy lies in his creation of the polyurethane foam surfboard in 1958. The Hobie company continues to manufacture surfboards today.[11]
Jeff Ho had a formative impact on surfboard shaping design and style in mid-20th century California. Ho shaped his first surfboard at the age of 14, and he soon began repairing and re-designing old boards found on the coast. In 1966, Ho began working as an apprentice to Bob Milner at Robert's Surfboards in Playa del Ray, California. It was here that Ho developed both the skillset to design high-performance surfboards; Ho's innovation led to the creation of the swallowtail board, which would later become a signifier of his shaping. In 1972, Ho purchased the a surf shop on the corner of Main and Bay Streets in Venice, California; he rebranded the shop as "Jeff Ho Surfboards and Zephyr Productions." While the Zephyr shop has been closed since 1976, Jeff Ho continues to shape surfboards as a personal Hobby to this day.[12]
Donald Takayama was a professional surfer and acclaimed shaper from Hawaii. He began shaping surfboards out of wooden railway ties as a young boy; however, in 1957, he moved to California to apprentice under the legendary shaper Dale Velzy. Takayama eventually began to shape for Jacobs' Surfboards; his visually-clean longboard design became one of the most popular surfboard models in the mid 20th century. Takayama's knowledge and skill in regards to surfboard design have defined him as one of the most influential surfboard shapers of all time.[13]
Simon Anderson is a surfer and shaper from Sydney, Australia who is most known for his innovation of the "thruster" board. In 1980, after viewing the work of shaper Frank Williams, Anderson constructed a surfboard with a square tail and three identical fins. Anderson's innovation, colloquially known as the "thruster", produced surfboards with enhanced stability and improved manuveribility. Anderson's "thruster" design is still utilized in the contemporary shaping world.[14]Odesa International Airport (Ukrainian: Міжнародний аеропорт «Одеса») (IATA: ODS, ICAO: UKOO) is an international airport of Odesa, the third largest city of Ukraine, located 7 km (4.3 mi) southwest from its city centre.
On 24 February 2022, Ukraine closed airspace to civilian flights due to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.[1]
The area of Odesa International airport is 570 hectares. Technical service of airport is based on 2,800 square meters area and represented by four parking places to provide technical service to four planes simultaneously. European standards classify the airport as "class 1".[2] The airport has ILS CAT I status.
The airport's runways either were or are co-used by the Ukrainian Air Force.
The airport was built in 1961.
In May 2007, the airport started construction work that included extending the main runway.
In 2009, it served 651,000 passengers.
On 8 June 2012, builders started to prepare the land on which the new terminal would be built. The area of the new terminal was to be 26,000 square meters, with the capacity for 1,000 passengers per hour (1.5–2 million passengers per year). It would have 16 check-in desks, and four telescopic gangways, and the number of bus pick-up points would be increased from two to five. The construction of the new terminal was planned to be completed by the end of 2013. However, due to extensive delays, it was opened for arrivals on 15 April 2017.[3] It is to serve both international and domestic flights. The estimated cost of the work was around 45–60 million. Airport Consulting Vienna company has developed a master plan, business plan and evaluation of the technical concept of the airport. The chief designer of the project is the Spanish company Ineco.
In 2019, Odesa International Airport announced an international competition for the best idea of a sculpture-symbol of the city's air gates. The first place was taken by Ukrainian artist Stepan Ryabchenko. His sculpture "Sphere" will be made and installed near the new airport terminal.[4][5]
During expansion work in 2021, workers found a mass grave containing 5,000-8,000 skeletons believed to be victims of the Holodomor.[6]
On 30 April 2022 a Russian missile struck the newly constructed runway, destroying it. Ukrainian officials stated that a Bastion missile was used, and no one was hurt. The Russian military later confirmed the attack.[7][8]
As of 24 February 2022, all passenger flights have been suspended indefinitely.[9]
Media related to Odesa International Airport at Wikimedia Commons
César Alejandro González Ramírez (born 11 January 1997) is a Chilean footballer that currently plays for Primera B de Chile club Deportes Santa Cruz as a forward.
González started his career at Primera División de Chile club O'Higgins. He progressed from the under categories club all the way to the senior team.
On 1 February 2015, Cubillos debuted against Huachipato replacing Damián Lizio at the 75' on the 3–0 win at the Estadio El Teniente.[1]


This biographical article related to a Chilean association football forward is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.Kwanza is an album by Archie Shepp released on Impulse! in 1974. The album contains tracks recorded from September 1968 to August 1969 by Shepp with four different ensembles.
The AllMusic review by Thom Jurek stated: "Kwanza may not be one of Shepp's better known recordings, but it is certainly one of his fine ones".[3]
All compositions by Archie Shepp, except as indicated
Recorded September 9, 1968 (track 2), February 17, 1969 (track 1) August 26, 1969 (track 4) and February 26, 1969 (tracks 3 & 5).
Herichthys pantostictus, the Chairel cichlid or Atezca cichlid, is a species of cichlid native to the Panuco River drainage of Mexico's Atlantic coast where it is mostly found in moderately fast flowing rivers, slightly brackish, murky lakes and lagoons along the coast.[2][3] A lacustrine form, formerly described as Herichthys molango and endemic to "Laguna Atezca" in the municipality of Molango, has now been extirpated by introduced species.[4] The species reaches a maximum size of 12.6 centimetres (5 in) SL though most do not exceed 5.6 centimetres (2.2 in), and can also be found in the aquarium trade.[5]

This Cichlidae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Ambassador Julius Kiema Kilonzo (born 13 April 1966), is a Kenyan politician and diplomat, who serves as Ambassador to Uganda, since September 2018.[1][2]
Before that, from August 2014 until September 2018, he served as Kenya's ambassador to Turkey.[3] Before his current assignment, he served two terms in the Kenya parliament presenting present-day Kitui East Constituency (at that time "Mutito Constituency"), from 2002 until 2012.[4]
Kilonzo was born on 13 April 1966 in present-day Kitui County, just outside the town of Kitui. He belongs the Oini (Mbaa Ndune) clan. He studied at the University of Nairobi (UoN), graduating with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science. Later, he obtained a Master of Arts degree in Armed Conflict and Peace Studies, also from UoN.[4]
After his studies Kilonzo joined a company called Toplic and Handling Limited' as an investigator-trainee. Over time, he was promoted to the position of investigations manager, responsible for investigations, tracing and fraud. Later, he was hired by Madison Insurance Company Limited in the same capacity. He then left to join Crystal Clear Loss Adjusters Limited, as the Assistant General Manager. Then he was promoted to the rank of managing director. Later, he worked as the chief executive officer of the Dynasty Group of Companies.[4]
He was first elected on a Forum for the Restoration of Democracy-People (Ford-People) ticket in 2002 before being re-elected on a Wiper Democratic Movement-Kenya (WDM-K) ticket in 2007. He was a gubernatorial candidate in 2013 Kitui local elections but came second behind Julius Malombe. He was vying on a National Rainbow Coalition (NARC) ticket.[4]
In 2014, he was appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta as the first Kenyan ambassador to Turkey following the opening of the Kenyan Embassy in Ankara in 2012.[5] He presented his credentials to the then president of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdoan, in July 2015.[6]
In 2018, he was appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta as the Kenyan ambassador to Uganda. He presented his credentials to President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni in September 2018.[1][2]John Acton (died 1350) was an English canon lawyer, known for his commentary on the writer on the ecclesiastical Constitutions of two papal legates of the thirteenth century. Sent to Henry III of England, they were Cardinal Otto, i.e. Otto of Tonengo, and Cardinal Ottobone, i.e. Ottobuono de' Fieschi (the future Pope Adrian V). His name is variously spelt Achedune, De Athona, Athone, and Eaton.
Acton is stated by John Leland to have been educated at the University of Oxford, and to have taken there the degree of LL.D. He was a pupil of John de Stratford. In 1329 he was provided by the pope to a canonry and a prebend in Lincoln Cathedral, but some years appear to have elapsed before he obtained these preferments. In 1343 he is found holding the prebend of Welton Ryval. In his books he is described as canon of Lincoln. He died in 1350.
Acton's chief work was a commentary on the ecclesiastical ‘constitutions’ of Otto and Ottobone, in succession papal legates in England in the thirteenth century. These constitutions formed for many years the English canon law, and Acton's notes were held by the lawyers of his own time in their interpretations. Many manuscript copies of Acton's commentary survived in the college libraries at Oxford. Acton's work was printed for the first time in 1496 by Wynkyn de Worde in William Lyndwood's Provinciale. Printed copies contain anachronistic references to books that were not written until after the death of Acton.
Sir Henry Spelman made use of Acton's commentary in his Concilia. It was then partly translated in John Johnson's Collection of Ecclesiastical Laws (London, 1720; cf. the English translation of Otto's Ecclesiastical Laws, by J. W. White, 1844, where many of his notes are translated). Other manuscripts are extant, and John Pits gave titles of other legal books ascribed to Acton.
Frederic William Maitland wrote of Acton that he was "a little too human to be strictly scientific. His gloss often becomes a growl against the bad world in which he lives, the greedy prelates, the hypocritical friars, the rapacious officials."[1]
This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: "Acton, John". Dictionary of National Biography. London: Smith, Elder & Co. 1885–1900.
 This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "John Acton". Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company.Rulfo is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
Wi-Fi microcontrollers enable Wi-Fi connectivity for devices so that they can send & receive data and accept commands. As such, Wi-Fi microcontrollers can be used for bringing otherwise ordinary devices into the realm of the Internet of things.
Wi-Fi microcontroller chips:
In the United States, a Mine Owners' Association (MOA), also sometimes referred to as a Mine Operators' Association or a Mine Owners' Protective Association, is the combination of individual mining companies, or groups of mining companies, into an association, established for the purpose of promoting the collective interests of the group. Such associations are sometimes referred to as MOAs, however, in some cases they may be designated by the state, district, or locale, such as the Cripple Creek District Mine Owners' Association (CCDMOA).[1]
Mine Owners' Associations were often formed for the purpose of fighting against union organizing drives, but smelter trusts and railroad syndicates were also a concern. These latter issues were complicated by the fact that some mine owners also controlled smelters and railroad lines.
Prior to the formation of the Western Federation of Miners (WFM), local unions and protective associations formed by miners did not present much of a threat to the mine operators. Organizations such as the Knights of Labor had little power in confronting owners. Miners demanding better working conditions or wage increases were often fired. When local unions sought such changes, they were easily driven out of the mining districts.[2]
During the 1896-97 strike of the Cloud City Miners' Union in Leadville, Colorado, mine owners formed a secret verbal agreement among themselves that none of them would recognize the union or negotiate with it, an arrangement later revealed in a report by the Colorado State Legislature.[3]
Mine owners went a step further and formed a Mine Owners' Association in response to union organizing in the mining district of Coeur d'Alene, Idaho during the 1880s.[4][5] A violent confrontation between local miners' organizations and mining companies in Coeur d'Alene in 1892 served as the impetus for formation of the Western Federation of Miners (WFM) in 1893. The mining companies of Colorado similarly joined together during a labor struggle with the WFM in 1894, and during the Colorado Labor Wars of 1903. However, the mining companies of the Cripple Creek District were not completely united, even during the 1903-04 strike. As in Coeur d'Alene,[6] mining companies in the Cripple Creek District that made agreements with unions were shut down by military force.[7]
In the late 1890s and 1900s, mine owners' associations were created in cities and states throughout the mining west.[8]
The Colorado Mining Association (CMA), had been established in 1876, and was incorporated in 1897, and still exists.[9]
In March 1902, Arthur L. Collins, of the Smuggler-Union mine in Telluride; Charles Chase; Arthur Winslow, general manager of the Liberty Bell; A.D. Snodgrass, chief clerk of the Smuggler-Union mine; and several other mine operators were instrumental in forming the Colorado Mine Operators' Association. The motivating reason was a WFM union organizing drive in Telluride, and similar efforts in other parts of Colorado. Twenty-seven members started the group, many of them from Idaho Springs, where the WFM was strong.[10]
Mining operators in the San Juan mountain area of Colorado formed the San Juan District Mining Association (SJDMA) in approximately 1903, as a direct result of a WFM proposal to the Telluride Mining Association for the eight-hour day. The new association consolidated the power of thirty-six mining properties in San Miguel, Ouray, and San Juan counties. The SJDMA granted itself the power to prevent any of its members from coming to an agreement with the miners' union that would accept reduced hours or increased wages.[11] This inflexible decision helped to create conditions that resulted in a series of bitter and bloody strikes throughout Colorado's mining communities.
Mining companies routinely hired agencies such as the Pinkerton National Detective Agency, the Baldwin–Felts Detective Agency, or the Thiel Detective Service Company to assign special agents to monitor, infiltrate, and sabotage unions, or union organizing drives. The MOAs sometimes issued work cards to miners who were required to renounce the union as a condition of employment. State MOAs enabled blacklisting of union miners on a statewide basis.[12] MOAs sometimes united to call upon state or federal authorities to send military force in the form of national guard or federal troops into strike areas.
In 1995, mining companies in the United States joined together to form the National Mining Association (NMA). The trade organization works through the Advocacy Campaign Team for Mining; lists itself as the voice of the mining industry in Washington, DC; and has more than 325 corporate members.
The Bituminous Coal Operators Association represents coal mining companies in negotiations with the United Mine Workers of America.The following are the baseball events of the year 1972  throughout the world.
1972 was tainted by a players' strike over pension and salary arbitration.  The strike erased the first week and a half of the season, and the Leagues decided to just excise the lost portion of the season with no makeups.  As a result, an uneven number of games were cancelled for each team; some as few as six, some as many as nine.  The lack of makeups of those games, even when they affected playoffs, led to the Boston Red Sox losing the American League East by half a game to the Detroit Tigers.
1972 marked the first year for the Texas Rangers, who had moved to Arlington from Washington, D.C. (where they played as the Washington Senators), after the 1971 season.  There would be no baseball in D.C. until  2005.  The team was one of the worst ever fielded by the franchise, losing 100 games for the first time since 1964.  Manager Ted Williams hated living in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, and resigned at the end of the season.
1972 would mark the Kansas City Royals' final year at Kansas City Municipal Stadium, as the next year they would move to Royals Stadium (later named Kauffman Stadium) at the Truman Sports Complex in suburban Kansas City.
The World Series was won by the Oakland Athletics, the first of three straight behind the bats of Reggie Jackson and Bert Campaneris, and the pitching cadre of Catfish Hunter, Rollie Fingers and Vida Blue.  The year ended on a sad note when Roberto Clemente died in an airplane crash off the coast of San Juan, Puerto Rico, on New Year's Eve, while participating in aid efforts after the 1972 Nicaragua earthquake.
*Denotes walk-off
Winter Leagues

Vainius or Voin (died between 1338 and 1342) was the Lithuanian Prince of Polotsk from 1315 to his death.[1] Very little is known about Vainius, brother of Gediminas, Grand Duke of Lithuania.[1] He is mentioned in written sources in 1324 for the first time. In 1328 he, already as Prince of Polotsk, signed a treaty with the Livonian Order and Novgorod.[1] His only known son Liubartas died in 1342 during fights with the Livonian Order.[1]

This biographical article about a member of the Lithuanian nobility is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.Rockin' Around the World was the sixth album of rock and roll music by Bill Haley and His Comets. Released in March 1958 on the Decca Records label, Decca 8692, the album was produced by Milt Gabler, who produced all of Haley's recordings for Decca. It was the second of three "themed" albums that Haley produced for the label. This album featured versions of well-known folk songs from around the world, rearranged in rock and roll style, including new lyrics, by Haley and his songwriting partners, Milt Gabler, Rusty Keefer, and Catherine Cafra. It is not known how much, if any, input Haley himself had into the writing process.
Examples of the new arrangements include "Come Rock with Me," based upon the melody of "’O sole mio", which was later again adapted by Elvis Presley as "It's Now or Never", and "Piccadilly Rock," which was based upon the melody of "London Bridge is Falling Down". Most of the melodies were in the public domain, with the exception of "Rockin' Matilda," based upon "Waltzing Matilda", which was still in copyright and thus credited to its original writers. Haley's steel guitar player, Billy Williamson, performs lead vocals on one track, "Jamaica D.J."
No hit singles resulted from this album, although Haley later re-recorded one track, "Vive le Rock and Roll", which incorporated the melody of "Frère Jacques", in a duet with Caterina Valente for the 1959 German movie Hier bin ich - hier bleib' ich (Here I Am, Here I Stay) released by Central Cinema Company Film (CCC).
All songs written by Bill Haley, Milt Gabler, Rusty Keefer and Catherine Cafra except where noted.Boyce Lephimotswe Sebetela is a Motswana politician who formerly served as a member of the Pan-African Parliament and Parliament of Botswana representing Palapye, and has served as Botswana’s first Chief of Staff since 2021. Previously, he worked as Head of Strategy for Debswana.[1][2]

This article about a politician from Botswana is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.Environmental issues in the Democratic Republic of the Congo are the consequence of compounding social and economic problems, including lack of access to clean energy, clearing of lands for agriculture and economic development, and armed conflict. Major environmental issues in DRC include deforestation, poaching, which threatens wildlife populations, water pollution and mining.
A dense tropical rainforest in the DRC's central river basin and eastern highlands is bordered on the east by the Albertine Rift (the western branch of Africa's Great Rift System). It includes several of Africa's Great Lakes.
The civil war and resulting in poor economic conditions have endangered much of this biodiversity. Many park wardens were either killed or could not afford to continue their work. The five national parks, the Garumba, Kahuzi-Biega, Salonga and Virunga National Parks, and Okapi Wildlife Reserve, are listed by UNESCO as World Heritage in Danger.
Displaced refugees cause or are otherwise responsible for significant deforestation, soil erosion and wildlife poaching. Another significant issue is environmental damage from the mining of minerals, especially diamonds, gold, and coltan – a mineral used to manufacture capacitors.
The environmental problems associated with the DRC affect its many endemic species of flora and fauna. The DRC has the world's second largest contiguous rain forest after the Amazon as well as other ecosystems including Savanna, swamps and flood plains. According to the World Wildlife Fund, these unique habitats and species make the DRC one of the most valuable yet vulnerable areas in the world for biodiversity, wildlife protection and rainforest sustainability.[2]
Species loss has been cited as a problem in the DRC, brought about or exacerbated by reasons that include deforestation for mining, wood fuel, infrastructure or agriculture, war, illegal poaching and increased consumption of bush meat due to overpopulation and lack of food security.[3] Some attempts to combat species loss in countries such as the DRC are actions such as the UN's Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), specifically SDG 15 Life on Land, the primary goals of which is to increase reforestation and biodiversity and reduce species loss, desertification, and illegal poaching.[4] One of the primary defences for species and habitat protection in the DRC is its system of national parks and reserves, which gives protected status to nearly 12% of the DRC's rainforest.[5] Five of these parks and reserves are UNESCO World Heritage Sites, including Africa's first national park Virunga national park. All of these parks have been put on the World Heritage in Danger List.[6] Poor governance and low economic conditions have reduced the effectiveness of these protections, especially during war times.[5] The human cost of protecting these parks has also been high with 200 park ranger deaths in the past 20 years.[7] Virunga national park and Salongo National Park, both of which are UNESCO World Heritage Sites are currently being looked at for mining and oil exploration. The move would open 21.5% of the Virunga park for exploitation, this is highly criticised by animal rights activists as it would threaten the habitat of mountain gorillas and other endangered species.
Between 2000 and 2014 the DRC lost an average of 570,000 hectares (0.2%) of rainforest to deforestation per year, with the highest amount of deforestation coming between 2011 and 2014.[8] Deforestation is the primary cause of biodiversity reduction and species loss globally, through habitat loss and fragmentation.[9] One of the goals of the SDG 15 is to reduce deforestation and encourage reforestation by 2020. The DRC had a 2018 Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 7.56/10, ranking it 36th globally out of 172 countries.[10]
The DRC has Africa's largest rainforest, which is under the threat of deforestation through mining operations, agriculture, infrastructure and wood fuel. In the DRC 94% of wood taken from the rainforest is used for wood fuel, mainly due to poverty, lack of energy infrastructure and the decentralised nature of its population. To mitigate this aid agencies have tried to promote agro-forestry with fast growing trees to avoid over exploitation of the rainforests.[11] Other large drivers of deforestation include mining and conflict, during the Congo conflict deforestation by militia groups was high for wood fuel, small mining operations and illegal logging to fund their operations. However, conversely conflict reduced deforestation for large scale mining due to security instability.[5]
One policy being attempted to reduce the deforestation and increase biodiversity in the DRC is the UN-REDD program, which uses emissions trading system so that developed nations can offset their carbon emissions by paying developing nations with rainforest to manage and conserve their forest.[12]
Bush meat refers to any meat that is procured from the wild. Overpopulation and continual conflicts in the DRC have led to food shortages, which have therefore increased the use of bush meat. Although data on bush meat use is not extensive, studies estimate 6 million tonnes of animals are taken for bush meat globally each year.[13] What animals are hunted are done so indiscriminately without thought of the importance of certain species that could be ecosystem engineers or keystone species.[13]
Bush meat is an important source of protein for millions in the DRC, especially in rural areas where it makes up 50–70% of meals. For some who cannot afford farmed produce it is a free meal.[14] A recent study in the DRC revealed that almost all of the animals are taken from the Congo each year, at 93% of all live animals there are in the forest are extracted for bush meat, whereas a sustainable rate would be 20%.[15] This is a huge amount compared to the Amazon where bush meat is hunted at only 3% the rate of the Congo.[15] the study reveals the only way to solve this is to find other food sources to feed people in the Congo Basin as bush meat is their only means of eating.[15] Another study showed that the species of bush meat in the meat markets of the DRC's third largest city Kisangani were primarily Artiodactyla at 40.06% of the carcasses sold then primates at 37.79% of carcasses sold.[16]
Recently the prevalence of hunting for bush meat has declined because of the risk to hunters and butchers from the Ebola virus from specifically ape and bat meat.[17] Even though when the meat is cooked smoked or dried it kills the virus, business has dropped significantly with some hunters reporting as much of a reduction in sales of 80%.[17]
Poaching for the exotic animal or ivory trade has been a persistent problem for species loss in the DRC; for some it has been a means of escaping poverty, while for some rebel groups, such as the  Lord's Resistance Army (LRA), it is a means of continuing the civil war.[18] The forest elephant is particularly at risk due to the high cost of its ivory, especially in the Far East, which led to a 62% decrease in population in 2002–2011[19] The main way this poaching for ivory can be reduced is through the hampering of the international demand for ivory, as this drives the trade.[19]
The introduction of park guards and the implementation of eco-tourism in Virunga National park, a primary habitat for great apes, has allowed the endangered mountain gorilla population to jump over 1000, a 25% rise on 2010 numbers.[20] However, the study indicated that poaching is still an existing problem, with researchers finding 380 snares and park guards continually being ambushed and killed by poachers.[20]
There has been a war in the DRC in different levels of intensity since 1994 when the country was called Zaire.[21] Although what was known as Africa's World War had ended in 2003 the eastern part of the country still has ongoing skirmishes between rebel groups and government forces.[21] No other method has reduced species population so dramatically than conflict, when a militia reached the Garamba National Park in 1997, within three months half of the park's elephants, two thirds of the buffalo, and three quarters of its hippos vanished.[22] The reason conflict is so damaging to wildlife is the increased use of bush meat to feed soldiers, the prevalence of weapons, the lucrative industry of selling exotic animals and ivory as well as the general failure of law and order.[22] According to another study which was taken during the time of the civil war in the Okapi Faunal Reserve, there was a 50% reduction in the abundance of elephants and a vast change in the distribution of them to the more secluded areas of the park.[23]
General Joseph Sabine (c. 1661 – 24 October 1739) was a British Army officer who fought in the Nine Years' War, the War of Spanish Succession and the Jacobite rising of 1715. He was later a politician who sat in the House of Commons from 1727 to 1734, becoming Governor of Gibraltar in 1730.
Sabine was probably the son of Walter Sabine and grandson of Avery Sabine, alderman and mayor of Canterbury, who died in 1648. He joined the army at the time of the Glorious Revolution.  In 1690 he married Hester Whitfield, daughter of Henry Whitfield, who, after having three sons who all died young, herself died at the age of 24.[1]
Sabine was appointed captain lieutenant to Sir Henry Ingoldsby's regiment of foot on 8 March 1689 and became captain of the Grenadier company before 18 October 1689.[2] He served in Ireland under William III and was granted estates in County Kildare.[1] On 13 July 1691, he became major of Colonel Charles Herbert's regiment.  He took part in William III's campaigns in the Low Countries, during the Nine Years' War and became lieutenant colonel on 6 July 1695[1] and fought at the Siege of Namur.[2]
Sabine served with the 23rd or Royal Welch Fusiliers in the War of Spanish Succession.  He obtained the brevet rank of colonel on 1 January 1703. Under Marlborough he was wounded on 2 July 1704 at the Battle of Schellenberg and on 1 April following became colonel of his regiment. He commanded his regiment at the Battle of Blenheim.[3] He took part in the Battle of Ramillies, being stationed with the fusiliers on the right of the English line. On 1 January 1707 he was promoted to the rank of brigadier-general. At the Battle of Oudenarde on 11 July 1708, he led the attack on the village of Heynam. Afterwards he took part in the siege of Lille that same year.  On 1 January 1710 he was appointed major-general,[2] and was given command of the Citadel at Ghent, where he had to put down a mutiny in 1712.[3] He married as his second wife Margaretta Newsham in 1711.[1]
When peace was concluded, Sabine returned with his regiment to England. In 1715 he purchased the estate of Tewin in Hertfordshire and rebuilt the house in the following year. Then in 1716 he commanded a brigade sent to confront the Pretender's army at Perth.[3] Later that year he became Commander of the British Army throughout Scotland.[3] in May 1716. In July, the John Murray, 1st Duke of Atholl, complained of 'the conduct of General Sabine and other King's officers, in regard to rebel prisoners and ... of the plundering and other impositions made by the troops' in Perthshire. In 1719 he was appointed Governor of Berwick and of Holy Island.[1]
At the 1727 British general election, Sabine was returned on the Government interest as Member of Parliament for Berwick-upon-Tweed.  He voted with the Government until he was appointed Governor of Gibraltar in 1730, having been promoted to General. He did not stand at the 1734 British general election.[1]
Sabine died at Gibraltar on 24 October 1739. His portrait was painted by Godfrey Kneller in 1711 and engraved by Faber in 1742.[2]
Attribution
This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Lee, Sidney, ed. (1897). "Sabine, Joseph (1662?-1739)". Dictionary of National Biography. Vol. 50. London: Smith, Elder & Co.
^ Ben Bathurst
Parantirrhoea is a monotypic butterfly genus in the family Nymphalidae.[2] Its only species, Parantirrhoea marshalli, the Tranvancore evening brown,[3][2] is endemic to the Western Ghats of India.[3] James Wood-Mason described this species from the specimens in the collection of G F L Marshall which were collected by Harold S. Ferguson who was director of the State Museum at Trivandrum.[4][1] Little was known about the species in the wild until a population was discovered in the Periyar Tiger Reserve in 1993.[5] Sightings of both sexes of this butterfly are reported in the southern region of the Western Ghats in 2002 (Kunhikrishnan (2002)). In 2006, larvae were collected from an Etah jungle like habitat in Kallar-Ponmudi valley, a northerly extension of the Ashambu hills of southern Western Ghats. Caterpillars collected were reared in laboratory conditions.[6][7] It is also known from Periyambadi in Kodagu.[8]
Males and females: Upperside, both wings dark fuscous suffused with rich deep violet. Forewing with an outwardly and forwardly arched subcrescentic pale violet or mauve band, commencing beyond the middle of the wing at the costal vein, terminating at the inner angle, and crossed obliquely by a series of three small white spots disposed in a straight line parallel to the outer margin, and placed upon folds of as many consecutive interspaces, the last being between the second and third median vein. Hindwing relatively longer tailed than in Melanitis ismene Cramer, with the membranous parts of the divergent tail almost wholly formed by the produced wing-membrane of the interspace between the second and third median vein, a very narrow anterior membranous edging being contributed by the interspace next in front; and with rather more than the basal two-thirds of its length in front of the discoidal vein and subcostal vein ochreous.[9]
Underside: both wings ochreous, obscurely striated with a deeper shade of the same colour, and marked with a submarginal series of inconspicuous brown specks, the probable rudiments of ocelli.[9]
This Satyrinae article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.Clement Scotus II (fl. 820) was an Irish grammarian.
Clement Scotus II arrived, according to tradition, from Ireland on the coast of Gaul, with another Irish scholar, around the time when Charlemagne began his sole rule (i.e. after the death of Carloman in 771). The two men were received at the Frankish court, and Clement was entrusted with the education of a number of pupils. The account of Clement's appearance in the Frankish realm rests solely upon the authority of the monk of St. Gall, who wrote towards the end of the ninth century, and whose narrative contains an element of fable.
Clement is mentioned in a catalogue of the abbots of Fulda: Ratgar, who was abbot from 802 to 817, sent a certain Modestus and other monks to Clement the Scot to learn grammar. Clement was, then or later, resident at the Frankish court; there is a poem by him addressed to Lothar as emperor (i.e. after 817), from which it appears that Lothar was his pupil; and another poem, by Ermoldus Nigellus, describes Clement as active in the festivities at Ingelheim on the occasion of the baptism of the Danish king Harald in 826.
The year of Clement's death is not known, but the day is given as 29 March in a necrology preserved in a Würzburg manuscript of the ninth century. His character is celebrated in a poem by Prudens, otherwise unknown, who ranks him first among the teachers in the palace school.
Two grammatical works exist in manuscript bearing Clement's name; one is an 'Ars Grammatica' (also described as 'De Partibus Orationis'), the other, which is possibly only a part of the same, 'De Barbarismo.'
This Clement Scotus has been misidentified, firstly with Clement Scotus I, the opponent of St. Boniface, and secondly with Claudius, bishop of Turin, who died about 839, and was Spanish. In consequence of this confusion the two Clements and Claudius have been  called 'Clemens Claudius' or 'Claudius Clemens'. The distinction between the three men was examined by Nicolaus Antonius, 'Bibliotheca Hispana vetus,' i. 469-61 (Madrid, 1788).
This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: "Clement Scotus II". Dictionary of National Biography. London: Smith, Elder & Co. 1885–1900.Bridewort is a common name for several plants and may refer to:
The 1974 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship was the high point of the 1974 season. The championship was won by Kilkenny who defeated Cork by a four-point margin in the final for a historic first success.[1][2][3][4][5] The match was replayed, the third time this had happened in a final in the history of camogie.[6]
This was the first championship to be held under the open draw. Maol Muire Tynan later to become a prominent journalist, played in goal as Kilkenny defeated Tipperary| 1–7 to 1–1 in the new open draw quarter-final at Gowran. Tipperary failed to score in the second half as Carmel Doyle scored Kilkenny’s goal. Galway kept some of their more prominent players for the junior team but put up a surprisingly good show against Cork.
Kilkenny needed a last-minute point from a free by Helena O'Neill in the semi-final at Wexford Park. Cork had a somewhat fortuitous first round victory over Galway but looked a team of champions when defeating Antrim in the semi-final.
Kilkenny were lucky to draw the final against Cork at Croke Park on 15 September with the last puck of the match from Helena O'Neill from an acute angle.[7][8][9][10][11] Cork had first half goals from Marion McCarthy, Nancy O'Driscoll and Marion Sweeney goaled for Cork in the first-half while Carmel Doyle and Angela Downey replied for Kilkenny.Agnes Hourigan wrote in the Irish Press:
This was one of the great finals in which the skills displayed by the Cork and Kilkenny hurlers were often evident. The high standard of play, the speed of the layers, and the accuracy of the free-takers all combined to make this a memorable game. Both sides missed chances but the Kilkenny attack muffed one opportunity towards the end that would probably have given them the title.[12]
Kilkenny led from start to finish in the replay and the goalkeeping of Deirdre Sutton prevented Kilkenny winning by a greater margin. At the end of the game the Cork players carried Ann Carroll, now in her twelfth inter-county season, off the field. Agnes Hourigan wrote in the Irish Press:
Kilkenny gave a brilliant display in the opening half, being faster to the ball, and to the strike. Cork never gave up. They chased every ball but were not as accurate as usual in front of goal. Kilkenny clinched the issue with a goal by Ursula Grace in the 22nd minute.[13]
MATCH RULES
MATCH RULESIn computer science and machine learning, cellular neural networks (CNN) or cellular nonlinear networks (CNN) are a parallel computing paradigm similar to neural networks, with the difference that communication is allowed between neighbouring units only. Typical applications include image processing, analyzing 3D surfaces, solving partial differential equations, reducing non-visual problems to geometric maps, modelling biological vision and other sensory-motor organs.[1]
CNN is not to be confused with convolutional neural networks (also colloquially called CNN).
Due to their number and variety of architectures, it is difficult to give a precise definition for a CNN processor. From an architecture standpoint, CNN processors are a system of finite, fixed-number, fixed-location, fixed-topology, locally interconnected, multiple-input, single-output, nonlinear processing units. The nonlinear processing units are often referred to as neurons or cells. Mathematically, each cell can be modeled as a dissipative, nonlinear dynamical system where information is encoded via its initial state, inputs and variables used to define its behavior. Dynamics are usually continuous, as in the case of Continuous-Time CNN (CT-CNN) processors, but can be discrete, as in the case of Discrete-Time CNN (DT-CNN) processors.[2][3][4]
Each cell has one output, by which it communicates its state with both other cells and external devices. Output is typically real-valued, but can be complex or even quaternion, i.e. a Multi-Valued CNN (MV-CNN).  Most CNN processors, processing units are identical, but there are applications that require non-identical units, which are called Non-Uniform Processor CNN (NUP-CNN) processors, and consist of different types of cells.
In the original Chua-Yang CNN (CY-CNN) processor, the state of the cell was a weighted sum of the inputs and the output was a piecewise linear function. However, like the original perceptron-based neural networks, the functions it could perform were limited: specifically, it was incapable of modeling non-linear functions, such as XOR. More complex functions are realizable via Non-Linear CNN (NL-CNN) processors.[5]
Cells are defined in a normed gridded space like two-dimensional Euclidean geometry. However, the cells are not limited to two-dimensional spaces; they can be defined in an arbitrary number of dimensions and can be square, triangle, hexagonal, or any other spatially invariant arrangement. Topologically, cells can be arranged on an infinite plane or on a toroidal space. Cell interconnect is local, meaning that all connections between cells are within a specified radius (with distance measured topologically). Connections can also be time-delayed to allow for processing in the temporal domain.
Most CNN architectures have cells with the same relative interconnects, but there are applications that require a spatially variant topology, i.e. Multiple-Neighborhood-Size CNN (MNS-CNN) processors. Also, Multiple-Layer CNN (ML-CNN) processors, where all cells on the same layer are identical, can be used to extend the capability of CNN processors.
The definition of a system is a collection of independent, interacting entities forming an integrated whole, whose behavior is distinct and qualitatively greater than its entities. Although connections are local, information exchange can happen globally through diffusion. In this sense, CNN processors are systems because their dynamics are derived from the interaction between the processing units and not within processing units. As a result, they exhibit emergent and collective behavior. Mathematically, the relationship between a cell and its neighbors, located within an area of influence, can be defined by a coupling law, and this is what primarily determines the behavior of the processor. When the coupling laws are modeled by fuzzy logic, it is a fuzzy CNN.[6] When these laws are modeled by computational verb logic, it becomes a computational verb CNN.[7][8][9] Both fuzzy and verb CNNs are useful for modelling social networks when the local couplings are achieved by linguistic terms.[10]
The idea of CNN processors was introduced by Leon Chua and Lin Yang in 1988.[11] In these articles, Chua and Yang outline the underlying mathematics behind CNN processors. They use this mathematical model to demonstrate, for a specific CNN implementation, that if the inputs are static, the processing units will converge, and can be used to perform useful calculations. They then suggest one of the first applications of CNN processors: image processing and pattern recognition (which is still the largest application to date). Leon Chua is still active in CNN research and publishes many of his articles in the International Journal of Bifurcation and Chaos, of which he is an editor. Both IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems and the International Journal of Bifurcation also contain a variety of useful articles on CNN processors authored by other knowledgeable researchers.  The former tends to focus on new CNN architectures and the latter more on the dynamical aspects of CNN processors.
In 1993, Tamas Roska and Leon Chua introduced the first algorithmically programmable analog CNN processor in the world.[12] The multi-national effort was funded by the Office of Naval Research, the National Science Foundation, and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and researched by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the University of California. This article proved that CNN processors were producible and provided researchers a physical platform to test their CNN theories. After this article, companies started to invest into larger, more capable processors, based on the same basic architecture as the CNN Universal Processor. Tamas Roska is another key contributor to CNNs. His name is often associated with biologically inspired information processing platforms and algorithms, and he has published numerous key articles and has been involved with companies and research institutions developing CNN technology.
Two references are considered invaluable since they manage to organize the vast amount of CNN literature into a coherent framework:
Other resources include
CNN processors could be thought of as a hybrid between ANN and Continuous Automata (CA).
The processing units of CNN and NN are similar. In both cases, the processor units are multi-input, dynamical systems, and the behavior of the overall systems is driven primarily through the weights of the processing unit’s linear interconnect.
However, in CNN processors, connections are made locally, whereas in ANN, connections are global.
For example, neurons in one layer are fully connected to another layer in a feed-forward NN and all the neurons are fully interconnected in Hopfield networks. In ANNs, the weights of interconnections contain information on the processing system’s previous state or feedback.
But in CNN processors, the weights are used to determine the dynamics of the system.
Furthermore, due to the high inter-connectivity of ANNs, they tend not exploit locality in either the data set or the processing and as a result, they usually are highly redundant systems that allow for robust, fault-tolerant behavior without catastrophic errors.
A cross between an ANN and a CNN processor is a Ratio Memory CNN (RMCNN). In RMCNN processors, the cell interconnect is local and topologically invariant, but the weights are used to store previous states and not to control dynamics. The weights of the cells are modified during some learning state creating long-term memory.[14][15]
The topology and dynamics of CNN processors closely resembles that of CA. Like most CNN processors, CA consists of a fixed-number of identical processors that are spatially discrete and topologically uniform. The difference is that most CNN processors are continuous-valued whereas CA have discrete-values. Furthermore, the CNN processor's cell behavior is defined via some non-linear function whereas CA processor cells are defined by some state machine.
However, there are some exceptions. Continuous Valued Cellular Automata are CA with continuous resolution. Depending on how a given Continuous Automata is specified, it can also be a CNN.
There are also Continuous Spatial Automata, which consist of an infinite number of spatially continuous, continuous-valued automata. There is considerable work being performed in this field since continuous spaces are easier to mathematically model than discrete spaces, thus allowing a more quantitative approach as opposed to an empirical approach taken by some researchers of cellular automata. Continuous Spatial Automata processors can be physically realized though an unconventional information processing platform such as a chemical computer. Furthermore, it is conceivable that large CNN processors (in terms of the resolution of the input and output) can be modeled as a Continuous Spatial Automata.
The dynamical behavior of CNN processors can be expressed using differential equations, where each equation represents the state of an individual processing unit. The behavior of the entire CNN processor is defined by its initial conditions, inputs, cell interconnections (topology and weights), and the cells themselves. One possible use of CNN processors is to generate and respond to signals of specific dynamical properties. For example, CNN processors have been used to generate multiscroll chaos (like the Chen attractor),[16] synchronize with chaotic systems, and exhibit multi-level hysteresis.[17][18][19] CNN processors are designed specifically to solve local, low-level, processor intensive problems expressed as a function of space and time. For example, CNN processors can be used to implement high-pass and low-pass filters and morphological operators. They can also be used to approximate a wide range of Partial differential equations (PDE)[20] such as heat dissipation and wave propagation.[21]
CNN processors can be used as Reaction-Diffusion (RD) processors. RD processors are spatially invariant, topologically invariant, analog, parallel processors characterized by reactions, where two agents can combine to create a third agent, and diffusion, the spreading of agents. RD processors are typically implemented through chemicals in a Petri dish (processor), light (input), and a camera (output) however RD processors can also be implemented through a multi-layer CNN processor. D processors can be used to create Voronoi diagrams and perform skeletonisation. The main difference between the chemical implementation and the CNN implementation is that CNN implementations are considerably faster than their chemical counterparts and chemical processors are spatially continuous whereas the CNN processors are spatially discrete. The most researched RD processor, Belousov-Zhabotinsky (BZ) processors, has already been simulated using a four-layer CNN processors and has been implemented in a semiconductor.[22][23][24][25]
Like CA, computations can be performed through the generation and propagation of signals that either grow or change over time. Computations can occur within a signal or can occur through the interaction between signals. One type of processing, which uses signals and is gaining momentum is wave processing, which involves the generation, expanding, and eventual collision of waves.  Wave processing can be used to measure distances and find optimal paths. Computations can also occur through particles, gliders, solutions, and filterons localized structures that maintain their shape and velocity.[clarification needed] Given how these structures interact/collide with each other and with static signals, they can be used to store information as states and implement different Boolean functions. Computations can also occur between complex, potentially growing or evolving localized behavior through worms, ladders, and pixel-snakes. In addition to storing states and performing Boolean functions, these structures can interact, create, and destroy static structures.[26]
The applications of CNNs to Boolean functions is discussed in the paper by Fangyue Chen, Guolong He, Xiubin Xu, and Guanrong Chen, "Implementation of Arbitrary Boolean Functions via CNN".[26]
Although CNN processors are primarily intended for analog calculations, certain types of CNN processors can implement any Boolean function, allowing simulating CA. Since some CA are Universal Turing machines (UTM), capable of simulating any algorithm can be performed on processors based on the von Neumann architecture, that makes this type of CNN processors, universal CNN, a UTM. One CNN architecture consists of an additional layer. CNN processors have resulted in the simplest realization of Conway’s Game of Life and Wolfram’s Rule 110, the simplest known universal Turing Machine. This unique, dynamical representation of an old systems, allows researchers to apply techniques and hardware developed for CNN to better understand important CA. Furthermore, the continuous state space of CNN processors, with slight modifications that have no equivalent in Cellular Automata, creates emergent behavior never seen before.[27]
Any information processing platform that allows the construction of arbitrary Boolean functions is called universal, and as result, this class CNN processors are commonly referred to as universal CNN processors. The original CNN processors can only perform linearly separable Boolean functions. By translating functions from digital logic or look-up table domains into the CNN domain, some functions can be considerably simplified. For example, the nine-bit, odd parity generation logic, which is typically implemented by eight nested exclusive-or gates, can also be represented by a sum function and four nested absolute value functions. Not only is there a reduction in the function complexity, but the CNN implementation parameters can be represented in the continuous, real-number domain.[26]
There are two methods by which to select a CNN processor along with a template or weights. The first is by synthesis, which involves determine the coefficients offline. This can be done by leveraging previous work, i.e. libraries, papers, and articles, or by mathematically deriving co that best suits the problem. The other is through training the processor. Researchers have used back-propagation and genetic algorithms to learn and perform functions.  Back-propagation algorithms tend to be faster, but genetic algorithms are useful because they provide a mechanism to find a solution in a discontinuous, noisy search space.[28][29][30]
There are toy models simulating CNN processors using billiard balls, but these are used for theoretical studies. In practice, CNN are physically implemented on hardware and current technologies such as semiconductors. There are plans to migrate CNN processors to emerging technologies in the future.[31][32][33][34][35][36]
Semiconductor-based CNN processors can be segmented into analog CNN processors, digital CNN processors, and CNN processors emulated using digital processors. Analog CNN processors were the first to be developed. Analog computers were fairly common during the 1950 and 1960s, but they gradually were replaced by digital computers the 1970s. Analog processors were considerably faster in certain applications such as optimizing differential equations and modeling nonlinearities, but the reason why analog computing lost favor was the lack of precision and the difficulty to configure an analog computer to solve a complex equation.
Analog CNN processors share some of the same advantages as their predecessors, specifically speed. The first analog CNN processors were able to perform real-time ultra-high frame-rate (>10,000 frame/s) processing unachievable by digital processors. The analog implementation of CNN processors requires less area and consumes less power than their digital counterparts. Although the accuracy of analog CNN processors does not compare to their digital counterparts, for many applications, noise and process variances are small enough not to perceptually affect the image quality.
The first algorithmically programmable, analog CNN processor was created in 1993.[12] It was named the CNN Universal Processor because its internal controller allowed multiple templates to be performed on the same data set, thus simulating multiple layers and allowing for universal computation. Included in the design was a single layer 8x8 CCN, interfaces, analog memory, switching logic, and software.  The processor was developed in order to determine CNN processor producibility and utility. The CNN concept proved promising and by 2000, there were at least six organizations designing algorithmically programmable, analog CNN processors.[12]
In the 2000s, AnaFocus, a mixed-signal semiconductor company from the University of Seville, introduced their ACE prototype CNN processor product line. Their first ACE processor contained 20x20 B/W processor units; and subsequent processors provided 48x48 and 128x128 grayscale processor units, improving the speed and processing elements. AnaFocus also had a multilayer CASE prototype CNN processors line. Their processors allowed real-time interaction between the sensing and processing. In 2014, AnaFocus had been sold to e2v technologies.[37]
Another company, AnaLogic Computers was founded in 2000 by many of the same researchers behind the first algorithmically programmable CNN Universal Processor. In 2003, AnaLogic Computers developed a PCI-X visual processor board that included the ACE 4K processor,[38] with a Texas Instrument DIP module and a high-speed frame-grabber. This allowed CNN processing to be easily included in a desktop computer. In 2006, AnaLogic Computers developed their Bi-I Ultra High Speed Smart Camera product line, which includes the ACE 4K processor in their high-end models.[39]
In 2006, Roska et al. published a paper on designing a Bionic Eyeglass for AnaLogic. The Bionic Eyeglass is a dual-camera, wearable platform, based on the Bi-I Ultra High Speed Smart Camera, designed to provide assistance to blind people. Some of its functions include route number recognition and color processing.[40][41][42]
Some researchers developed their own custom analog CNN processors. For example:
Despite their speed and low power consumption, there are some significant drawbacks to analog CNN processors. First, analog CNN processors can potentially create erroneous results due to environment and process variation. In most applications, these errors are not noticeable, but there are situations where minor deviations can result in catastrophic system failures. For example, in chaotic communication, process variation will change the trajectory of a given system in phase space, resulting in a loss of synchronicity/stability. Due to the severity of the problem, there is considerable research being performed to ameliorate the problem. Some researchers are optimizing templates to accommodate greater variation. Other researchers are improving the semiconductor process to more closely match theoretical CNN performance. Other researchers are investigating different, potentially more robust CNN architectures. Lastly, researchers are developing methods to tune templates to target a specific chip and operating conditions. In other words, the templates are being optimized to match the information processing platform. Not only does process variation limit what can be done with current analog CNN processors, it is also a barrier for creating more complex processing units. Unless this process variation is resolved, ideas such as nested processing units, non-linear inputs, etc. cannot be implemented in a real-time analog CNN processor. Also, the semiconductor "real estate" for processing units limits the size of CNN processors.
Currently the largest AnaVision CNN-based vision processor consists of a 4K detector, which is significantly less than the megapixel detectors found in affordable, consumer cameras. Unfortunately, feature size reductions, as predicted by Moore’s Law, will only result in minor improvements.  For this reason, alternate technologies such as Resonant Tunneling Diodes and Neuron-Bipolar Junction Transistors are being explored.[45] Also, CNN processor architecture is being re-evaluated. For example, Star-CNN processors, where one analog multiplier is time-shared between multiple processor units, have been proposed and are expected to result in processor unit reduction size of 80%.[46]
Although not nearly as fast and energy efficient, digital CNN processors do not share the problems of process variation and feature size of their analog counterparts. This allows digital CNN processors to include nested processor units, non-linearities, etc. In addition, digital CNN are more flexible, cost less and are easier to integrate. The most common implementation of digital CNN processors uses an FPGA.  Eutecus, founded in 2002 and operating in Berkeley, provides intellectual property that can be synthesized into an Altera FPGA. Their digital 320x280, FPGA-based CNN processors run at 30 frame/s and there are plans to make a fast digital ASIC. Eustecus is a strategic partner of AnaLogic computers, and their FPGA designs can be found in several of AnaLogic’s products. Eutecus is also developing software libraries to perform tasks including but not limited to video analytics for the video security market, feature classification, multi-target tracking, signal and image processing and flow processing.  Many of these routines are derived using CNN-like processing. For those wanting to perform CNN simulations for prototyping, low-speed applications, or research, there are several options. First, there are precise CNN emulation software packages like SCNN 2000. If the speed is prohibitive, there are mathematical techniques, such as Jacobi’s Iterative Method or Forward-Backward Recursions that can be used to derive the steady state solution of a CNN processor. Lastly, digital CNN processors can be emulated on highly parallel, application-specific processors, such as graphics processors. Implementing neural networks using graphics processors is an area of further research.[47][48][49][50][51]
Researchers are also perusing alternate technologies for CNN processors. Although current CNN processors circumvent some of the problems associated with their digital counterparts, they do share some of the same long-term problems common to all semiconductor-based processors. These include, but are not limited to, speed, reliability, power-consumption, etc. AnaLogic Computers, is developing optical CNN processors, which combine optics, lasers, and biological and holographic memories. What initially was technology exploration resulted in a 500x500 CNN processor able to perform 300 giga-operations per second.
Another promising technology for CNN processors is nanotechnology. One nanotechnology concept being investigated is using single electron tunneling junctions, which can be made into single-electron or high-current transistors, to create McCulloch-Pitts CNN processing units. In summary, CNN processors have been implemented and provide value to their users. They have been able to effectively leverage the advantages and address some of the disadvantages associated with their underling technology, i.e. semiconductors. Researchers are also transitioning CNN processors into emerging technologies. Therefore, if the CNN architecture is suited for a specific information processing system, there are processors available for purchase (as there will be for the foreseeable future).[52]
CNN researchers have diverse interests, ranging from physical, engineering, theoretical, mathematical, computational, and philosophical applications.
CNN processors were designed to perform image processing; specifically, real-time ultra-high frame-rate (>10,000 frame/s) processing for applications like particle detection in jet engine fluids and spark-plug detection. Currently, CNN processors can achieve up to 50,000 frames per second, and for certain applications such as missile tracking, flash detection, and spark-plug diagnostics these microprocessors have outperformed a conventional supercomputer. CNN processors lend themselves to local, low-level, processor intensive operations and have been used in feature extraction,[53] level and gain adjustments, color constancy detection,[54] contrast enhancement, deconvolution,[55] image compression,[56][57] motion estimation,[58][59] image encoding, image decoding, image segmentation,[60][61] orientation preference maps,[62] pattern learning/recognition,[43][63] multi-target tracking,[64] image stabilization,[58] resolution enhancement,[65] image deformations and mapping, image inpainting,[66] optical flow,[67] contouring,[68][69] moving object detection,[70] axis of symmetry detection,[71] and image fusion.[72][73][74]
Due to their processing capabilities and flexibility, CNN processors have been used and prototyped for novel field applications such as flame analysis for monitoring combustion at a waste incinerator,[75] mine-detection using infrared imagery, calorimeter cluster peak for high energy physics,[76] anomaly detection in potential field maps for geophysics,[77] laser dot detection,[78] metal inspection for detecting manufacturing defects,[79] and seismic horizon picking. They have also been used to perform biometric functions[80] such as fingerprint recognition,[81] vein feature extraction, face tracking,[82] and generating visual stimuli via emergent patterns to gauge perceptual resonances.
CNN processors have been used for medical and biological research in performing automated nucleated cell counting for detecting hyperplasia,[83] segment images into anatomically and pathologically meaningful regions, measure and quantify cardiac function, measure the timing of neurons, and detect brain abnormalities that would lead to seizures.[84][85]
One potential future application of CNN microprocessors is to combine them with DNA microarrays to allow for a near-real time DNA analysis of hundreds of thousands of different DNA sequences. Currently, the major bottleneck of DNA microarray analysis is the amount of time needed to process data in the form of images, and using a CNN microprocessor, researchers have reduced the amount of time needed to perform this calculation to 7ms.
CNN processors have also been used to generate and analyze patterns and textures. One motivation was to use CNN processors to understand pattern generation in natural systems. They were used to generate Turing patterns in order to understand the situations in which they form, the different types of patterns which can emerge, and the presence of defects or asymmetries.[27]  Also, CNN processors were used to approximate pattern generation systems that create stationary fronts, spatio-temporal patterns oscillating in time, hysteresis, memory, and heterogeneity. Furthermore, pattern generation was used to aid high-performance image generation and compression via real-time generation of stochastic and coarse-grained biological patterns, texture boundary detection, and pattern and texture recognition and classification.[86][87]
There is an ongoing effort to incorporate CNN processors into sensory-computing-actuating machines as part of the emerging field of Cellular Machines.  The basic premise is to create an integrated system that uses CNN processors for the sensory signal-processing and potentially the decision-making and control.  The reason is that CNN processors can provide a low power, small size, and eventually low-cost computing and actuating system suited for Cellular Machines.  These Cellular Machines will eventually create a Sensor-Actuator Network (SAN),[88] a type of Mobile Ad Hoc Networks (MANET) which can be used for military intelligence gathering, surveillance of inhospitable environments, maintenance of large areas, planetary exploration, etc.
CNN processors have been proven versatile enough for some control functions.  They have been used to optimize function via a genetic algorithm,[89] to measure distances, to perform optimal path-finding in a complex, dynamic environment, and theoretically can be used to learn and associate complex stimuli. They have also been used to create antonymous gaits and low-level motors for robotic nematodes, spiders, and lamprey gaits using a Central Pattern Generator (CPG).  They were able to function using only feedback from the environment, allowing for a robust, flexible, biologically inspired robot motor system.  CNN-based systems were able to operate in different environments and still function if some of the processing units are disabled.[90][91][92]
The variety of dynamical behavior seen in CNN processors make them intriguing for communication systems.  Chaotic communications using CNN processors is being researched due to their potential low power consumption, robustness and spread spectrum features.  The premise behind chaotic communication is to use a chaotic signal for the carrier wave and to use chaotic phase synchronization to reconstruct the original message. CNN processors can be used on both the transmitter and receiver end to encode and decode a given message.  They can also be used for data encryption and decryption, source authentication through watermarking,[93] detecting of complex patterns in spectrogram images[94] (sound processing), and transient spectral signals detection.
CNN processors are neuromorphic processors, meaning that they emulate certain aspects of biological neural networks.  The original CNN processors were based on mammalian retinas, which consist of a layer of photodetectors connected to several layers of locally coupled neurons.[95] This makes CNN processors part of an interdisciplinary research area whose goal is to design systems that leverage knowledge and ideas from neuroscience and contribute back via real-world validation of theories.  CNN processors have implemented a real-time system that replicates mammalian retinas, validating that the original CNN architecture chosen modeled the correct aspects of the biological neural networks used to perform the task in mammalian life.[95] However, CNN processors are not limited to verifying biological neural networks associated with vision processing; they have been used to simulate dynamic activity seen in mammalian neural networks found in the olfactory bulb and locust antennal lobe, responsible for pre-processing sensory information to detect differences in repeating patterns.[96][97]
CNN processors are being used to understand systems that can be modeled using simple, coupled units, such as living cells, biological networks, physiological systems, and ecosystems.  The CNN architecture captures some of the dynamics often seen in nature and is simple enough to analyze and conduct experiments.  They are also being used for stochastic simulation techniques, which allow scientists to explore spin problems, population dynamics, lattice-based gas models, percolation, and other phenomena.  Other simulation applications include heat transfer, mechanical vibrating systems, protein production,[98] Josephson Junction problems,[99] seismic wave propagation,[100] and geothermal structures.[101] Instances of 3d CNN have been used to prove certain emergent phenomena in complex systems, establishing a link between art, dynamical systems and VLSI technology.[102][103][104][105]
CNN processors have been used to research a variety of mathematical concepts, such as non-equilibrium systems, constructing non-linear systems of arbitrary complexity, emergent chaotic dynamics, and discovering new dynamic behavior.  They are often used in researching systemics, a trans-disciplinary, scientific field that studies natural systems.  The goal of systemics researchers is to develop a conceptual and mathematical framework necessary to analyze, model, and understand systems, including, but not limited to, atomic, mechanical, molecular, chemical, biological, ecological, social and economic systems.  Topics explored are emergence, collective behavior, local activity and its impact on global behavior, and quantifying the complexity of an approximately spatial and topologically invariant system.[106] With another definition of complexity (MIT professor Seth Lloyd has identified 32 different definitions of complexity[107]), it can potentially be mathematically advantageous when analyzing systems such as economic and social systems.
Bright November Morning is the fourth solo studio album by New Zealand musician Don McGlashan. Released in February 2022, the album debuted at number one on the Official New Zealand Music Chart.
The album was recorded and produced by Don McGlashan & The Others, a band which included McGlashan, James Duncan on bass and keyboards, Chris O'Connor on drums and Shayne P. Carter as the band's guitarist. In addition, musicians Hollie Smith and The Beths featured on the album.[1] Due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic in New Zealand, McGlashan found himself breaking old habits.[2]
The song "Lights Come On" was inspired by McGlashan's early days with the Mutton Birds, while "Sunscreen" is an ode to New Zealand summers. "John Bryce" was inspired by New Zealand politician John Bryce and the government attack on Parihaka in November 1881.[2]
The album was preceded by three singles, "Now's the Place" in September 2021,[3] "Go Back In" in November,[4] and "All the Goodbyes in the World" in February 2022.[5] When Bright November Morning was released in February 2022, it became McGlashan's first number one album in New Zealand.[6]
Milton O. Browne (born 1 June 1976) is a Barbadian middle-distance runner. He competed in the men's 800 metres at the 2000 Summer Olympics.[1]
This biographical article relating to Barbadian athletics is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.L. Elaine Green (née Browning; November 5, 1940 – May 5, 2014) was an American TV reporter who worked for WCPO-TV for  14 years (1969–83).
Green worked as a model on the Mike Douglas Show in Cleveland before moving to work at WCPO after being hired in 1969 by future husband Al Schottelkotte to be a fashion reporter. She was then trained to be a news journalist by Schottelkotte.[1]
She won the Peabody award in 1981 for her 1980 interview conducted while being held hostage along with others by James Hoskins for 12 hours in the headquarters of the TV station on October 15, 1980. Hoskins had forced his way into the newsroom and took nine hostages before killing himself sat in the news reporters chair.
After her career with WCPO she founded her own video production business, Video Features, in 1982.[2]
Born in Bethel, Ohio to Charles and Ruth Browning, she graduated from Bethel Tate High School in 1958.[3]
She wed WCPO news director Al Schottelkotte (1927–1996) in January 1988.[4] She was his second wife. The couple had two children, David and Tracey.[5] Prior to her death Green lived in Lawrenceburg, Indiana.[6]
Green died on May 5, 2014, aged 73, from complications during routine surgery. [where?][7] She was survived by two children and four grandchildren.
David Perry (born 4 April 1967) is a Northern Irish video game developer and programmer. He became prominent for programming platform games for 16-bit home consoles in the early to mid 1990s, including Disney's Aladdin, Cool Spot, and the Earthworm Jim series. He founded Shiny Entertainment, where he worked from 1993 to 2006. Perry created games for companies such as Disney, 7 Up, McDonald's, Hemdale, and Warner Bros.[1] In 2008 he was presented with an honorary doctorate from Queen's University Belfast for his services to computer gaming.[2] He was the co-founder & CEO of cloud-based games service Gaikai, which was acquired by Sony Computer Entertainment. In 2017 Perry became the co-founder & CEO of a customer intelligence startup called GoVYRL, Inc. developing a new advanced brand dashboard called Carro.[3]
Perry was born in April 1967 in Lisburn, Northern Ireland, growing up in the towns of Templepatrick and Donegore in County Antrim, attending Templepatrick Primary School[4] and then Methodist College Belfast.[5]
He began writing computer game programming books in 1982 at the age of 15, creating his own games for the Sinclair ZX81. In an interview with the BBC, Perry stated that his first game was a driving game, "a black blob avoiding other black blobs", which he wrote and sent to a magazine, which printed it. He sent them more games and they sent him a cheque for £450: a bit of a problem for a teenager who did not yet have a bank account.[4] His work continued until he was offered a job for £3,500/year as an apprentice to a veteran programmer who taught him more advanced programming.[5]
At the age of 17, he moved to London, where he developed games with Mikro-Gen and Probe Software for publishers such as Elite Systems and Mirrorsoft, working on titles such as the ZX Spectrum conversion of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1991) for NES and the Sega Genesis version of The Terminator (1992). Perry's work on The Terminator caught the attention of Virgin Mastertronic, which was expanding into the United States and had entered a deal with McDonald's to publish a video game themed around its restaurants within six months. Perry responded to Virgin's generous employment offer into their American development branch in Irvine, California, and was granted an apartment overlooking Laguna Beach, which he remarked was "like living in Baywatch". Although Perry had planned to return to the United Kingdom upon the game's completion, the unexpected critical success of Global Gladiators (1992) convinced him to stay in California; as he recalled, "it suddenly made people appreciate me".[6]
While at Virgin, Perry led the development duties for several award-winning games for the Genesis, including Cool Spot (1993) and Aladdin (1993). His work within Virgin Games also served as a basis for the development of other games such as the Sega CD version of The Terminator (1993) and the Genesis versions of RoboCop Versus The Terminator (1994) and Walt Disney's The Jungle Book (1994), all of them developed after David Perry had left the studio.
On 1 October 1993, Perry formed his own company in Laguna Beach, California, Shiny Entertainment, naming the company after the song "Shiny Happy People" by R.E.M.[7] The company's first game Earthworm Jim (1994) was a hit, selling millions of copies on multiple platforms, including Sega Genesis, Super NES and PC. The title character, an "average worm" who stumbles upon a space suit which turns him into a superhero, became immensely popular, and spawned a variety of other types of merchandise: action figures, comic books, and a syndicated television cartoon series.
Listing Perry in their "75 Most Important People in the Games Industry of 1995", Next Generation argued that his success had as much to do with his exceptional knack for public relations as his talent as a developer: "Perry often seems to benefit and suffer from a game press who seemingly can't hype him or his products enough. Is all the hype justified? Well, probably not. But that's not the point, the fact is that the press and gamers love him. Next Generation's opinion as to Perry's PR secrets? Always return phone calls, don't make promises you can't keep, and show a genuine interest in whomever you're talking to. Sounds easy? So how come hardly any actual PR people (let alone presidents and lead programmers) in the industry do the same?"[8]
In 2002, Shiny Entertainment was acquired by Atari, Inc. for US$47 million, with Perry signed to a long-term contract to continue on as president. Also in 2002, Perry collaborated with The Wachowskis on games in coordination with their Matrix series of movies.[9]
In 2006, he resigned from Shiny,[10] and  formed GameConsultants.com, a consultancy firm planning to offer executive level video game industry advice,[11] followed by GameInvestors.com, a business-to-business company to help video game development teams get funded. He recounted, "I was working on a new game design for Infogrames (Atari) called Plague and was incredibly excited about it. Atari called and told me they had run out of money, and so I offered to find a buyer for my team, they said they’d handle it and I moved on. The first phone call I had after leaving was with The Collective, and they ended up buying Shiny."[12]
Perry is on the advisory board for the Game Developers Conference, and has spoken at industry venues such as E3, CES, Hollywood and Games, Digital Hollywood, iHollywood, SIGGRAPH, Entertainment in the Interactive Age, What Teens Want, The Banff Summit, as well as at major universities such as USC, and MIT.[13] In 2006, he co-hosted the annual Game Developers Choice Awards with Tommy Tallarico.
In November 2008, Perry co-founded Gaikai in the Netherlands, a company that released game streaming technology in late 2009.[14] In July 2012, Gaikai was sold to Sony Computer Entertainment for $380 million.[15]
In January 2016, Perry confirmed that he and Michael Jackson had been discussing making a video game together prior to the singer's death.[12]
In July 2017 Perry left Gaikai, joining startup GoVYRL, Inc.[3][16] to build new technology for brands to work with influencers;[clarification needed] the technology is called Carro. GoVYRL, Inc. has seed investments from entities including The Cove Fund,[17] Brendan Iribe and Alpha Edison.[18]Malinda Lowe (born 13 August 1979), is a Sri Lankan record producer, audio engineer, songwriter, and event manager particularly in Live Sound and mixing console.[1] He is known for recording and mixing songs and synthesizers for artists such as Shreya Goshal, Udit Narayan, Olivia Newton-John, Mohombi, Akon, Sonu Nigam, Bathiya and Santhush and The Gypsies.[2] He is also the creator and founder of Universal Sound Productions.[3]
Lowe was born on 13 August 1979 in Chailaw, Sri Lanka. He started his education at St. Mary's College, Chilaw.[4] Then he attended St. Anthony's College, Wattala to complete secondary education. He completed his O/Ls in 1996, and started mathematics for his A/Ls, which ended in three months.[3] In school times, he studied keyboard and piano from Dulip Gabadamudalige.[2]
Lowe spent time with his father helping with business-related matters while he was studying. In the meantime, he helped his father to run his hardware shop related to machinery and distribution.[1] During his A/Ls, he joined with NIBM where he studied audio engineering.[4] He studied audio engineering at Harman International Business School in California, and later followed a comprehensive course on Audio engineering endorsing Harman products. Then he completed digital mixing exams in Bangalore with Indian audio engineers.[2] And joined with a few brands such as JBL USA, AVID USA, Soundcraft UK, Crown Audio, AKG, Waves, DanteAudio, and for Post mixing work Pro Tools.[3][5]
In the early 2000s, he met renowned musician Nalin Perera, and they compiled a radio jingle in 2002.[1] In 2006, Lowe entered the music industry by working as the sound engineer in the solo album Bambarindu for musician Nalin Perera. Later, he made collaborative work with Nalin Perera's musical band "Marians" during its first unplugged concert.[4] The unplugged version was done for the 11th anniversary of Sirasa TV.[3] At the same time, he met Ranga Dasanayake at Turning point studios where Lowe studied all the DAW and plugins.[1] In 2009, he founded the sound production company titled "Universal Sound Productions", in which he was the director and Pro Audio live and post-production engineer. The company rigged a JBL VERTEC line array system at the 5,000-capacity Sri Lanka Exhibition and Convention Center for the musical show of R&B singer Ocean. Then the company supported two mega concerts in Sri Lanka by the UK/Australian singer Olivia Newton-John at the 1,800-capacity Musaeus College Auditorium in Colombo.[6]
In 2018, Lowe got the opportunity to become the sound engineer for Sonu Nigam Live in Concert held at CH & FC, which was also his first international event. After that, Lowe continued to do many international events such as;[4] Arjit Singh symphony orchestra, Yanni Live in concert, Colombo Musical festival, Jaxx festival, Shreya Goshal, Udit Narayan, Olivia Newton-John, Mohombi, Akon & Priyanka Chopra Concert in the Maldives, Leo Sayer, Billy Ocean, Abba Teens, Boney M., Jason Derulo, Kenny G, 
Engelbart Humperdinck, and Enrique Iglesias.[7] In the meantime, he also made sound mixing for Sir Lionel Richie at the FOH and Jon Sacada.[3] He was also involved as the sound mixer and engineer with many major events that took place in Sri Lanka such as the Commonwealth summit main event, the world Buddhist summit and Maldives 50th independence day celebration.[2] Apart from that, he contributed to major local concert productions for leading musical bands and musicians such as Mahesh Denipitiya, Bathiya and Santhush Live concerts, Marians Unplugged, The Gypsies, Daddy: Chandrayan Pidu Live, Doctor and Rookantha Gunathilake's show Ru Sanda Re.[1]
Apart from musical events, Lowe also worked as the sound mixer in sports events and modeling shows in Sri Lanka, such as; the Colombo Night Races, the Sri Lanka Premier League (SLPL) opening show, and Carlton Super Sevens Rugby. Currently, he is working as one of the member of the Audio Engineering Society in New York and also as a Harman technical presenter in Sri Lanka.[2] He is also the managing director of Lowe Audio Solutions.[8] In 2020, he was involved with Sri Lanka's first Drive-in Concert performed by Bathiya and Santhush.[9][10][11]Annick Lanoë (born 1948) is a French film director, screenwriter and author.[1] She has directed and written two films Les Nanas[2] and Les Mamies. She is also the author of a number of books including Qui est sous ma couette.
She was born in Paris.

This article about a French film director is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Karawal Nagar is a census town in North East Delhi, India.[1]
As of 2011[update] India census,[3] Karawal Nagar had a population of 224,281. Karawal Nagar, was also in centre of the 2020 Delhi riots.
.
Karawal Nagar is well connected to other parts of Delhi through Delhi Metro, DTC buses, Cabs, shared and hired auto rickshaws, and Gramin Sewa.
The nearest metro station to Karawal Nagar is Johri Enclave Metro and Shiv Vihar Metro Station. The distance between Karawal Nagar and Johri Enclave metro station is just 1.8 km.
Majority of people living here use Delhi Metro, shared auto and DTC buses.
Ricardo Wayne Morris (born 2 November 1992) is a Jamaican international footballer who plays for Portmore United, as a midfielder.
Morris has played club football for Portmore United, Tampa Bay Rowdies and Montego Bay United.[1][2]
In March 2010, Morris had heart surgery.[3]
In 2019, Morris went on loan to VPS in Finland.[4]
He made his international debut for Jamaica in 2014.[1]
This biographical article relating to Jamaican soccer is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.Katzenjammer was an English-language Norwegian band from Oslo, formed in 2005. The band consisted of Anne Marit Bergheim, Solveig Heilo, Turid Jørgensen, and Marianne Sveen, the latter of whom left the band in the beginning of 2016, prompting an indefinite hiatus.
The members of Katzenjammer met in 2004 while studying at a private music school in Oslo.[1][2] The band was formed in 2007 while listening to Anne Marit Bergheim perform the song "Wading in Deeper" on the piano. They were brought together by a common feeling of being "the outcasts at the school." Katzenjammer felt that their music school didn't encourage originality, but "only wanted to teach what had been done."[1]
The band is named after the Katzenjammer Kids, the oldest comic strip continually in syndication.[3] They chose this comic strip because they noticed that they resembled the characters in it.[4] The term Katzenjammer is a German loanword that literally means "lament of a cat", and is used in Norway to describe low-grade music and instrumentation (which in Germany would be called Katzenmusik - "music by cats").
In 2008, Katzenjammer were chosen as one of the finalists in NRK's yearly Urørt competition for unsigned artists. They finished in third place with the song "A Bar in Amsterdam".[5] That year they also performed at the Scandinavian music convention by:Larm in Oslo, gaining them national exposure.[6]
Katzenjammer's debut album Le Pop was released in September 2008. The album was a mixture of different musical styles including pop, dark cabaret, country and bluegrass.[7] Its songs were composed by the band's friend Mats Rybø, while the music was arranged by Katzenjammer on their fifteen shared instruments.[8][9]
Le Pop was well received by music critics, and was described as "engrossing and appealing".[10] It reached number nine on the Norwegian albums chart and number seventy-one in the Netherlands.[11][12] In 2008, Le Pop was nominated for a Spellemannprisen award for Best Debut Album of the Year.[13]
A Kiss Before You Go, Katzenjammer's second album, was released in September 2011. The album's lyrics and visual direction were inspired by the French film The City of Lost Children, a maritime fantasy adventure.[14]
A Kiss Before You Go debuted at number seven on the German albums chart,[15] and was certified gold.[16] In Norway, the album reached number six.[11] The album received positive reviews from critics, who found it to be "utterly delightful" and "close to brilliance."[17][18] The lead single, "I Will Dance (When I Walk Away)", was a minor hit in Germany, peaking at number thirty-two on the singles chart.[19]
In May 2012, Katzenjammer released A Kiss Before You Go: Live in Hamburg, their first live album. Recorded at Große Freiheit 36 during the Hamburg, Germany dates of their 2011 tour, it was released in both CD and DVD formats.[20] In 2013 they also contributed to the book "Think like a rockstar" Tenk som en rockestjerne,[21] written by Ståle Økland.
On April 14, 2014, the band stated on their Facebook page that they were in studio recording their new album. On November 18, 2014, the first single, Lady Grey, was released with a lyric video on YouTube. On January 5, 2015, the music video for "Lady Grey" was released via Clash Magazine. The new album Rockland was released on January 16, 2015, via Vertigo and Universal Music.
Marianne Sveen wanted to leave the band after ten years, something she told the other band members in April 2015. Later the same year, in December 2015, it was announced that Katzenjammer had decided to take a break as a band.[22] One month later, it was announced to the public, that Sveen had decided to leave the band, something she wrote on Facebook in January 2016. [23]
Mount Tempü is a peak of the Barail Range rising at the mountainous border of the Indian states of Manipur and Nagaland. With a height of 2994 m above sea level, Tempü known by the people residing in Nagaland and Mt Esii by the people from Manipur is the highest peak of Manipur and the second highest peak in the Barail Range.[1]
Mount Tempü is located at an altitude of 2994m above mean sea level.[2] The peak is located in the South western part of Viswema—the starting point of the climb.[1] The peak is surrounded by other Naga people such as Mao Nagas and Maram Nagas.[3] Occasionally the peak is snow covered during the winter months.
The Asian Highway 1 and also the NH-2 passes through its foothills. The nearest airport is Dimapur Airport at Chümoukedima about 96 kilometres (60 miles) away from Viswema while the Bir Tikendrajit International Airport is located about 120 kilometres (75 miles) south of Viswema.
The peak can be access from the same route to Dzükou Valley that is from the foothills of Viswema. Here one can hike or take a ride to the rest house above Teyozwü Hill. From here one has to climb forty minutes to the top of the mountain (Khiyoke). Here the path on the left leads to Mount Tempü whereas on the right leads to Dzükou Valley. Mount Tempü is about two hours climb from Khiyoke.
Blackened death metal (also known as black death metal) is an extreme subgenre of heavy metal that fuses elements of black metal and death metal.[1][2]
The genre emerged in early 1990s when black metal bands began incorporating elements of death metal and vice versa. The genre typically employs death growls, tremolo picking, blast beats, and Satanic lyrics and imagery. Bands of the genre typically employ corpse paint, which was adapted from black metal.
The genre is commonly death metal that incorporates musical, lyrical or ideological elements of black metal, such as an increased use of tremolo picking, anti-Christian or Satanic lyrical themes and chord progressions similar to those used in black metal.[3] Blackened death metal bands are also more likely to wear corpse paint and suits of armour, than bands from other styles of death metal.[4] Lower range guitar tunings, death growls and abrupt tempo changes are common in the genre.[5] Some blackened death metal bands, such as Goatwhore and Angelcorpse, even take significant influence from thrash metal.[5]
Both black metal and death metal evolved out of the same crop of early extreme metal bands such as Dark Angel, Possessed, Kreator, Sodom, Venom, Celtic Frost and Bathory,[6][7][8] leading to common elements between the genres being in place. Early death metal groups possessing certain elements in common with black metal include early Sepultura, Morbid Angel, and Deicide. John McEntee, guitarist and vocalist of death metal band Incantation, has noted that he and his band draw influence from black metal.[5] Seminal black metal band Darkthrone began playing death metal before evolving into the style they would primarily become known for.[9]
Blasphemy crossed death metal and black metal on their debut album Fallen Angel of Doom, giving way to the development of war metal.[9] Dissection evolved out of the Gothenburg melodic death metal scene, embracing black metal influences into their music and helping create melodic black-death thanks to their 1993 album The Somberlain.[10]
The year 1998 saw the release of Behemoth's album Pandemonic Incantations, striking a stylistic change in the sound of the band's output from a traditional black metal style with generally pagan lyrical themes into a more death metal influenced sound with lyrics about the occult and Satan.[11] After continuing this style, their 2000 album Thelema.6 peaked at number 31 on the Polish Albums Charts.[12] Many of Behemoth's subsequent albums would continue to chart, with Demigod peaking at number 15,[13] The Apostasy at number 9,[14] and Evangelion and The Satanist both at number one,[15][16] with multiple albums charting worldwide.[17][18][19][20] American band Skeletonwitch's third, fourth and fifth albums peaked at numbers 151, 153 and 62, respectively, on the Billboard 200 charts.[21]
Thy Art Is Murder, a band which previously played deathcore, moved into a style more similar to blackened death metal on their fourth album Dear Desolation,[22][23] charting in eight different territories, including a peak at  number five on the Australian Albums Charts and number seven on the New Zealand Heatseekers Albums.[24][25] Similarly, New Jersey's Lorna Shore also began to tread into blackened death metal territory with their sophomore album "Flesh Coffin".[26]
Melodic black-death[27] (also known as blackened melodic death metal or melodic blackened death metal)[10] is a genre of extreme metal that describes the style created when melodic death metal bands began being inspired by black metal and European romanticism. However, unlike most other black metal, this take on the genre incorporates an increased sense of melody and narrative.[10] Some bands who have played this style include Dissection,[10][27][28] Sacramentum,[10][27] Naglfar,[10] Dawn,[10] Unanimated,[10] Thulcandra,[27][10] Skeletonwitch,[29] and Cardinal Sin.[27]
Sweden's Dissection evolved alongside melodic death metal bands such as At the Gates and In Flames, by building upon the musical foundation laid by death metal and incorporating guitar melodies and harmonies amongst the standard brutality of the genre. However, unlike the other bands, Dissection began incorporating influences from black metal into their music,[30] which lead to their debut album The Somberlain influencing a plethora of subsequent bands and Metal Injection dubbing them "one of the most important extreme metal bands of all time".[10] Sacramentum's debut and second albums Far Away from the Sun and The Coming of Chaos would then continue Dissection's style of black metal-infused melodic death metal, based around middle of the neck guitar riffing and howling vocals, while Vinterland would lean even more upon their black metal predecessors like Norway's Emperor.[10] Naglfar would base their sound primarily within that of Gothenburg metal bands like In Flames and Dark Tranquility, by taking a brighter and thrashier take on the style.[10]
War metal[31][32][33] (also known as war black metal[32] or bestial black metal)[33] is a genre derived primarily from first wave black metal,[31][32] while incorporating elements of death metal and grindcore.[31][32] It is aggressive,[32] cacophonous[31] and chaotic[31][32] and includes musical characteristics including tremolo picking, blast beats, growled or screamed vocals and lo-fi production.[34]
Academic Nicolae Sfetcu credited the earliest releases in the style as being released by Brazilian bands Sepultura, Holocausto and Sarcófago, while also citing Canadian band Blasphemy and their 1990 debut album Fallen Angel of Doom as the "starting point" of the genre.[35] Kansas City, Missouri band Order from Chaos and  many of the acts on the record label Ross Bay Cult were also an early proponents in the genre.[36] The genre quickly developed a scene in Australia, with Sadistik Exekution and Bestial Warlust.[34] It was the members of Bestial Warlust who coined the name "war metal".[37] At this time, the Finnish scene was home to war metal bands Archgoat and Beherit.[36] According to Invisible Oranges, some see the genre as having been begun with the 1996 formation of the Canadian band Conqueror, and as having concluded with the band's 1997 disbandment.[36]
Other notable acts in the genre include Revenge, Diocletian, Teitanblood, Black Witchery, Axis of Advance,[38] Impiety,[32] In Battle[39] and Zyklon-B.[40]
José Joaquín de Olmedo y Maruri (20 March 1780 – 19 February 1847) was President of Ecuador from 6 March 1845 to 8 December 1845. A patriot and poet, he was the son of the Spanish Captain Don Miguel de Olmedo y Troyano and the Guayaquilean Ana Francisca de Maruri y Salavarría.
On 9 October 1820, Olmedo and others declared the city of Guayaquil independent from Spain. He was President of the Free Province of Guayaquil until it was united to Gran Colombia by Simón Bolívar against Olmedo's will. He was also twice mayor of Guayaquil.
As a result of Guayaquil's annexation to Colombia, Olmedo travelled to Peru in a self-imposed exile. He became active in Peruvian politics, forming part of the country's first Constituent Congress and representing it diplomatically in Europe, specifically as minister to France and Portugal, among other states.[1]
He was Vice President of Ecuador from 1830 to 1831,[2] and became President of Ecuador from 6 March 1845, to 8 December 1845, surviving an attempted coup on 18 June of that year.
He was also a noted poet who emphasized patriotic themes.  His best-known work is La victoria de Junin, which pictures the Latin American fighters for independence from Spain as the legitimate heirs of the Incas.
Olmedo devoted his life to Guayaquil, he created the Guayaquilean flag and shield, and in 1821 he composed the Song to the October Ninth, which would become the Guayaquil Anthem.
He is quoted as saying "He who does not hope to win has already lost."[3]
The José Joaquín de Olmedo International Airport in Guayaquil is named after him.
José Joaquín de Olmedo[4] was a participant in a group organized by don José de Antepara that supported secession from the Spanish Empire.[5] The group was formed the night of 1 October 1820 in the home of José de Villamil under the guise of a quinceañera for Isabela Morlás, who was the daughter of fellow secessionist Pedro Morlás. Gregorio Escobedo, Francisco de Paula Lavayen, Luis Fernando Vivero, and José Rivas also participated, as well as Venezuelans Febres Cordero, Miguel de Letamendi, and Luis Urdaneta, among others. The group, known as the "Forge of Vulcan," concluded the meeting with an oath of loyalty to the cause by those present.
During the days following the meeting, Antepara and Villamil managed to convince the military leaders in charge of Guayaquil’s defense to join the cause of independence. However, they decided to give leadership of the liberationist movement to Olmedo. On 3 October, Villamil visited Olmedo to offer him the position of leadership, but Olmedo declined because he thought that the movement should be led by someone with military instead of political experience. Nevertheless, Olmedo confirmed his commitment to the cause and offered to help with political and diplomatic matters once independence was reached.
The cause of independence, eventually led by León de Febres Cordero, continued in the following days with exhaustive planning of the rebellion that aimed to keep losses and use of weapons to a minimum. Finally, on the night of 8 October the revolution began with the capture of several military outposts by the rebels and the apprehension of authorities loyal to the Spanish crown. The rebellion continued until the morning of 9 October.[6]
During his life, he dedicated part of his time to the creation of novels, songs, poems, and other kinds of literary works. Among his most well known works are: Canto a Bolívar; Al General Flores, vencedor en Miñarica; and Alfabeto para un niño. He designed the flag and crest of Guayaquil and wrote the lyrics of its anthem.
In 1808 he was inspired to compose the prologue to the tragedy El Duque de Viseo de Quintana and his poem El Árbol, which he finished in 1809. El Árbol contains two parts: one that is philosophical and has great aesthetic sense, and one that is less carefully constructed which ends the poem. This makes it seem as if there were two distinct verses brought together.
In January 1811 he was still in Mexico and read his poem Improntu.
In the beginning of 1817 he traveled to Lima and wrote A un amigo, don Gaspar Rico....
In 1821 he wrote Canción al 9 de octubre, considered to be the first anthem of the Ecuadorian territory.
In 1823 in Lima he edited his 45-page translation from English of Essay on Man by Alexander Pope.
In 1825 he composed Marcha and the poem La Libertad.
In 1837 he wrote Canción del 10 de agosto, which served as a precursor to the current national anthem as demonstrated by Espinosa Pólit.
In 1840 he wrote En la muerte de mi hermana. In 1843 he edited Ocios poéticos del General Flores y una oda en su obsequio in 52 pages.
From then on his poems began to be published with great success. In 1848 a volume of Obras Poéticas, a collection revised and corrected by Olmedo, was released in Valparaiso months before his death. The second edition was issued in Paris in 1853, with 214 pages. There are later publications as well.
Raja Enga Raja (transl. Raja, our king) is a 1995 Indian Tamil language film directed by T. Vijayasingam. The film stars Goundamani, Ramya Krishnan and Sadhana. It was released on 10 March 1995.[1]
Raja is an [RS officer who works in New Delhi and is in love with his colleague and friend Prabha. However, during his visit to his hometown, a remote village in Tamil Nadu, his parents arrange his wedding with his cousin Lakshmi, an uneducated but innocent girl from the same village. Raja is forcefully married to Lakshmi due to suicide blackmail and thinks that she is of no match to him. Raja and Lakshmi leave to Delhi. Prabha gets shocked knowing about Raja's wedding but understands his situation and accepts it.
Raja feels bad as Lakshmi is uneducated and keeps scolding her often for her ignorance. Lakshmi doubts Raja having an affair with Prabha. Lakshmi also does not like Raja speaking with any of his female colleagues, which angers him further. Raja sends Lakshmi back to his village and asks her not to return to Delhi, but Raja's parents decide to unite Lakshmi and Raja.
Raja's parents take Lakshmi along with them to Delhi. They meet Prabha and understand that she is a kindhearted woman and sees Raja only as a good friend. Raja's parents advise Lakshmi not to doubt Raja's character. Lakshmi realizes her mistake and starts trusting Raja. Also, Prabha starts to teach basic etiquette to Lakshmi. Lakshmi learns English and starts working as a tourist guide in Delhi. Now, Raja starts doubting Lakshmi as she speaks with many male tourists. Finally, Raja realizes his mistake and patches up with Lakshmi.
The music was composed by Ilaiyaraaja.[3]

This article about a Tamil-language film of the 1990s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.Saints and animal/plant life. A number of Christian saints have anecdotes and stories about them in relation to animals or plants. In some cases they appeared to possess miraculous powers to speak with animals.
Among examples of such supposed stories include the following.
A group of dogs were pursuing a hare and the hare run under this horse as he was riding it. The dogs stopped and the hare continued. Anselm thought the hare reminded him of a poor soul about to die that is surrounded by devils waiting to carry away their prey. And Anselm then forbade the dogs to continue pursuing the hare, and the dogs obeyed and left the hare in peace.[1]
Columba, while living on the island of Iona, once supposedly called one of the other monks to him and told him that a heron would arrive in two days on the west side of the island, having flown there from Ireland. And he instructed the monk to go there and take the bird, bringing it back with him to feed it and take care of it for three days as a pilgrim.  And after three days it would be ready to leave again, to go back to Ireland. And it all happened as Columba predicted, and the monk found the weak and hungry bird on the shore, took care of it, and released it again after three days.[2]
Another story involving Columba is that there was a fruit tree near the monastery of Durrow in Ireland that was connected to Columba's monastery in Iona. The fruit was plentiful, but it was always bitter. When Columba came to Durrow on one occasion, he came to the tree and blessed it, saying 'In the name of almighty God, all your bitterness shall leave you, O bitter tree, and your fruit until now most bitter shall become most sweet.' And after he did this, the fruit of the tree supposedly did become sweet.[3]
He encountered a very large boar being pursued by hunting dogs in Skye and said 'Go no further, but die where you are now' and after he said this, the boar dropped dead.[4]
Shortly before he died, he supposedly blessed the island of Iona by saying that 'From this hour, from this instant, all poisons of snakes shall have no power to harm either men or cattle in the lands of this island for as long as the people who dwell here keep Christ's commandments'.[5]
A monk named Molua Ua Briúin asked Columba to bless a butchering knife for him, and Columba blessed it without realizing what it was. When he later learned that it was a butchering knife he said, 'I trust in my Lord, that the implement I have blessed will harm neither man nor beast'. And when this knife was later used to slaughter cows, the knife was incapable of cutting the cows' flesh and could not even penetrate the skin. This knife was then melted down and the metal for it was put on all the metal implements used at the monastery of Iona.[6]The 2019–20 Arab Club Champions Cup, officially named the 2019–20 Mohammed VI Champions Cup (Arabic: كأس محمد السادس للأندية الأبطال 2019–20) after Mohammed VI of Morocco, where the final was hosted, was the 29th season[note 1] of the Arab Club Champions Cup, the Arab world's club football tournament organised by UAFA.[1]
Étoile du Sahel were the defending champions, having won their first title in the previous edition. They were eliminated by Shabab Al-Ordon in the first round.[2] The tournament was postponed for ten months in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the final was played on 21 August 2021, where Raja Casablanca defeated Al-Ittihad Jeddah on penalties after a 4–4 draw to earn their second title.[3]
A total of 38 teams participated in the tournament; 19 from Africa and 19 from Asia. 8 clubs started in the preliminary round where two of them advanced to the first round which consisted of 32 teams. From then on, the tournament was played in a knockout format with home and away legs, until the final which was a one-leg match played at the Prince Moulay Abdellah Stadium in Rabat, Morocco.[4]

The prize money is as follows:[5]
The schedule is as follows.[6]


The draw for the first round was held on 27 July 2019.[7]
Notes
The draw for the second round was held on 5 October 2019.[8]
The draw for the quarter-finals was held on 4 December 2019.[9]
The draw for the semi-finals was held on 4 December 2019 (after the quarter-finals draw).[9]
The final was played on 21 August 2021 at the Prince Moulay Abdellah Stadium in Rabat, Morocco. The "home" team (for administrative purposes) was determined by an additional draw held after the quarter-final and semi-final draws.[9]
Statistics exclude preliminary round.Krokek is a locality situated in Norrköping Municipality, Östergötland County, Sweden with 4,285 inhabitants in 2010.[1] It is the main settlement of Kolmården and located a few kilometres away from the Sörmland border. The place's name comes from krokig ek, which refers to a crooked oak at the border between Östergötland and Sörmland.[2]

This article about a location in Östergötland County, Sweden is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.Tanga Region
(Kilindi District) ,
(Korogwe District),
(Handeni District),
(Pangani District)
Pwani Region
The Zigua or in some sources Zigula (Wazigua in Swahili) are a Bantu ethnic and linguistic people hailing from far northern Pwani Region and western southern Tanga Region in Tanzania. In Tanga Region they are the majority in Handeni District, northern Kilindi District and also are a historically significant population south of the Pangani River in Pangani District. They speak the Zigula language. In 1993, the Zigua population was estimated to number 355,000 people, today they number 631,000 people.[1]
The Zigua are considered to be the parent tribe of the Shambaa people, the Bondei people and the Ngulu people, which today all live in north-eastern Tanzania. For instance, the king Mbegha, who was to become the leader of the Shambaa people and the grandfather of the Shambaa ruler Kimweri ye Nyumbai (†1862), was born among the Zigua.
In the 1830s, the Zigua people acquired firearms, occupied the Pangani valley, and presented a danger to the mountain empire. In 1857, Burton declared that "the watch-fire never leaves the mountain" and "the war-horn is now silent." Kimweri was reluctant to recognize the importance of firearms, but his border chiefs embraced them and attracted supporters from outside the nation. Kimweri governed a conservative kingdom from a mountain capital remote from the trade routes.[2]
Firearms offered those who originally acquired them a short-term edge. The Zigua were the ones who initially acquired weapons and drove the Maasai from the lower Pangani valley by 1850, while the Arusha were the ones who did so in the upper valley. But as the First World War would demonstrate, muskets were primarily defensive weapons. With said weapons, Saadani was burned by the Zigua in the early 1850s.[2]
The residents of the coastal hinterland were exposed to Islam. Many Segeju and Digo people converted to Islam. In the 1870s, missionaries discovered a sizable Islamic population in Bonde (Muheza). One person wrote that "there is a little mosque in almost every town" and "an Arab School in the larger ones." It is said that the Zigua converted the Bondei people to Islam in Bonde, and it is undeniable that Islam spread to Uzigua at this time.[2]
One factor contributing to the German period's first widespread adoption of Islam by inland peoples was the fervor of Muslim teachers, particularly Qadiri Khulafa. In the past, there were Muslim communities in the country's commercial towns and among hinterland peoples like the Bondei and Zigua, and a few interior monarchs had converted to Islam or adopted an Islamic façade.[2]
The three areas of deeper influence in German times were as follows:
In the hinterland in the north, there was one breakthrough. By 1914, the Segeju were predominately Muslim, whereas the Bondei appeared to be split between Christians and Muslims, with the latter group being particularly prevalent in the east near the Tanga coast. As their position of power declined in Usambara, many Kilindi converted to Islam. Both coastal waalimu Islamic teachers and Shambaa were present there by 1913. Omari Mgaza, a Zigua Qadiri trained in Bagamoyo, is linked to the Zigua conversion. By 1914, the majority of Zigua were likely at least nominal Muslims, and the dhikr was said in a remote area that included migratory workers and traders. It embraces individuals who were becoming peasants due to their close proximity to the coast.[2]
As Zigua claimed to be descended from Harun al-Rashid's warriors or, as some dynasties in the Southern Highlands claimed Arab ancestry, the adoption of Islam allowed people looking to connect their small-scale communities to the broader history of Islam. And it includes the political figures who were frequently Muslim pioneers because they interacted with the outside world the most and were therefore most exposed to its hazards. John Saidi, the Bondei apostle to the Zigua and a practicing Christian, was a former exorcist.[2]
The land of the Zigua has been plagued by famines for most of its 19th century history due to the introduction of rinderpest by Europeans earlier in the century. "Great numbers of cattle have died in the last year or two from cattle disease, and I nowhere saw the vast herds which used to be such a striking feature of the Zigua country," wrote a missionary who was in Uzigua in 1907 while on a visit. Twenty years later, trypanosomiasis was endemic and cattle had all but vanished from Uzigua.[2]
The German East African Company (DOG) sent out 18 trips to north eastern Tanzania between 1884 and 1886 to negotiate treaties with the powerful states there that would expand its territory. By April 1888, it had also built up 18 little trading and research stations on the mainland. These sparked a lot of animosity. The headman of Dunda, a village inland from Bagamoyo, requested that the Company close its outpost for fear that "at some point, white people will be masters of the land." At Korogwe, the Zigua protested against a station. Two stations at Uzaramo were assaulted in the beginning of 1887. Throughout 1886 and 1887, there was a lot of discussion about the prospect of resisting the Germans, especially by Saadani's monarch, Bwana Heri.[2]
The Sambaa king at Vugha was recognized by the British as their overlord or paramount chief. As a result, the Shamba native government annexed the once independent Zigua headman. But in the interim, the majority of the Zigua—who resided in different districts—were united in 1928 to form a tribal federation. One gleefully exclaimed, "It was not like in the olden days of our ancestors when they met with furious faces ready for war." "Let all the Zigua descendants return and enter into the unity and become a nation," the Zigua people said, "so that our fellow Zigua people in various countries will hear that now Zigua has united into one nation." The Zigua under Kilindi authority were thus motivated to establish an organization "to protect their interests in the country of their adoption."[2]
They asked for the valley lands' restitution in 1943, arguing that they had been a part of Uzigua before the German invasion. The British dismissed the plea on the basis of history after receiving advice from a hardly impartial missionary in Mlalo.
The Zigua were completely correct because their ancestors had taken control of the valley during Kimweri ya Nyumbai's declining years. Responses to nationalism in this region in the 1950s would be significantly influenced by the persistence of Zigua irredentism. Old conflicts were thus brought into modern politics, as in Usambara and Bonde, while African political philosophy and organization acquired the framework of colonial administration.[2]
Informally formed in 1938 to raise money for a Zigua boarding school, Moyo wa Uzigua na Nguu, often known as "The Heart (or Spirit) of Uzigua and Ungulu," had deeper roots. One was the conflict between the inherited Muslim chiefs and the educated Christian Zigua. Another was the local economy's collapse after tsetse's invasion. The fall of the Pangani valley to Shambaa rule and the split of Uzigua among multiple British districts as the third factor gave Zigua tribalism a significant irredentist component. Moyo evolved into possibly the most active tribal betterment society in the nation. Its originator, a teacher by the name of Paul Nkanyemka, joined the tribal council with the support of the district office, and he was appointed council secretary.[2]
However, just like the Sukuma Union, it had to deal with the challenge of defining the tribe in an area where various groups blended into one another almost invisibly. Moyo not only embraced Zigua and Ngulu—two distinct "tribes" on British lists—but also claimed kinship with the Bondei and Shamba, who are also thought to be decedents of Seuta. At the offices of the native administration, the provincial commissioner unveiled a clay statue of Seuta, the Zigua national hero  in 1951. The figure was the creation of a Makerere student.[2]
When Moyo first opened its doors to Seuta's descendants, it also pushed for the return of the lost Pangani valley, or Tambarare as it was known locally, from Shambaa to Zigua authority. In 1954, the Zigua established the Tambarare Citizens Union on the advice of counsel in order to "protect the interests of the people of the plains as against those of the hills." Moyo's campaign for the election of a Zigua paramount chief, meantime, exacerbated the conflict in Zigua relations with Shamba.[2]
Dodonaea microzyga, commonly known as brilliant hopbush, is a dioecious spreading shrub in the family Sapindaceae. It grows between 0.3 and 1.5 metres tall.[1][2]
Flowering occurs in the months May to July. Flowers are red, solitary or paired, generally with 8 stamen, pubescent ovary and 4 sepals. Flowers develop into a 3-winged glabrous capsule. The fruit capsule is also red and membranous with a septifragal dehiscence, referring to the wings of the capsule breaking open to release seeds. The capsule is elliptical in shape, 10–13 mm long, 10–17 mm wide, with the wings between 2.5–5 mm wide.[3]
Two varieties are recognised:[4]
The species was first formally described by Victorian Government Botanist Ferdinand von Mueller in 1863 based on plant material collected in the vicinity of Neales River in South Australia during an expedition of John McDouall Stuart.[4]
The genus takes its name from the sixteenth century Flemish physician and botanist Rembert Dodoens, who published an illustrated Flemish flora in his Cruydeboek (1554), which was the first to group plants based on shared physical characteristics rather than the established methodology of alphabetical listing.[5]
Although located in separate areas of Australia, both varieties are located in semi-arid to arid habitats, usually in open woodland or shrubland communities, with D. microzyga F.Muell. var. microzyga preferring stony rises, hills and ranges of ironstone and granite. Widely distributed across South Australia, and extending into southern Northern Territory, western Queensland and far northwestern New South Wales, where it currently has Endangered status. Dodonaea microzyga F.Muell. var. acrolobata is located exclusively in Western Australia, yet is widely distributed in the area between the Murchison region to the north, the Goldfield-Esperance region to the south and east towards the border region of the Great Victoria Desert.[3]
New South Wales is the only State government jurisdiction in Australia with a conservation status applied to D. microzyga F.Muell. var. microzyga which is listed as Endangered. The causes for species decline are attributed to restricted habitat, land clearance and feral goats.[6] Feral goats specifically have been listed by the NSW Scientific Committee as a key threatening process to habitat degradation.[7]
New South Wales has the largest population of feral goats in Australia,[8] preferring the semi-arid rocky rangeland habitats shared with D. microzyga, being more secure from predators and human disturbance than the treeless plains.[6] Dodonaea species (also including D. viscosa and D.attenuata) are palatable to both sheep and goats and are a known forage plant for goats in other states including Western Australia.[3] Although sheep were found not to excessively remove leaf biomass from the plant, feral goats completely defoliate the shrubs resulting in the plants dying.[9]

This Australian rosid article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.Pitargou (Greek: Πιταργού) is an abandoned Turkish Cypriot village in the Paphos District of Cyprus, located 3 km south of Letymvou. Pitargou is located 286m above sea level.[2]
Today, the only standing building left is the building that was used in the past as a mosque and as a school.[3] Pitargou is an abandoned village in the province of Paphos in Cyprus and it is situated 25 km northeast of the homonymous town, 72 km northwest of Limassol and 155 km southwest of Nicosia.
One of the many Turkish Cypriot villages in the province that are now deserted and left to the desolation of time, Pitargou was inhabited until 1974. In 1963, the year when the inter-communal riots between Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots broke out and under the fear of an attack by groups of nationalists from nearby villages, Turkish Cypriots settled here from neighboring Choulou. Finally, the Turkish invasion of 1974 and the mutual exchange of populations that was agreed upon by Denktas-Cleridis forced the inhabitants to move to the Turkish northern territories occupied by the Turks.[4]